The following is a transcript of the live chat with Bruce Boxleitner and
Claudia
Christian, held on February  3 at 9PM in the America Online Auditorium, The
Globe.

B5 Online:C) 1997 Warner Bros. Online

B5 Online:Welcome to CYBERTALK!

B5 Online:Tonight we are please to bring you our guests from the hit
science-fiction television show,  "Babylon 5." We are currently awaiting the
arrival of Bruce Boxleitner, but we want to welcome our  guest  Claudia
Christian tonight! Bruce Boxleitner and Claudia Christian join us from the set
of "B5," taking a  break from their busy schedules! Bruce Boxleitner is an
accomplished actor with far too many roles to attribute here. Some of his most
memorable roles are from the movies "Tron" and "The Babe."  On  Television he
is best known for his starring role in "Scarecrow and Mrs. King." Claudia
Christian's film  credits include "Hexed," A Gnome Named Gnorm," "Clean and
Sober," and "The Hidden."  Im sure she'll  also tell us a little about her
musical career! Welcome Claudia!

B5 Claudia:hi everybody!

B5 Online:Our first question is from Thinkum....

Question:Bruce & Claudia: since B5 has a preordained 5-year run, how do you
feel about having to  say farewell to your characters in just one year?  Do you
feel as attached to them as we are, or is there a  professional detachment?

B5 Claudia:I have no intention of saying goodbye to Ivanova I think I'll  have
her with me forever.

B5 Claudia:You never know... mabey there will be a sequel.... mabey a sit
com... mabey not. :-0

B5 Online:Heres a good question from JennBills...

Question:For Bruce & Claudia: If you could write your character's final scene
on B5, what would it  be? (ex: Would Ivanova 'go out in a blaze of glory' in
the upcoming battle? Would Sheridan & Delenn settle  down on Earth or Minbar?)
Not necessarily what JMS has planned but what would *you* want for your
character?

B5 Claudia:I would like to be sitting in a bar with a lovely blond... blond
what ? you ask... NO seriously, I would like to have as befitting an ending for
Ivanova as she deserves, something heroic and sexy  at the same tim e, is that
possible... Joe.  Joe where are you.

B5 Online:Heres a question from RSandridg...

Question:Hi CC -- How is the CD doing? -- from "the othe Rick" ;)

B5 Claudia:I'm selling them at a brisk pace. Mostly because they come with a
free nude photo.  (Just  kidding)

B5 Online:An interesting question from WaywardFl....

Question:Claudia, is it true that you've been seen dancing down the hall in
costume eating oatmeal cookies? And if not, what flavor were they?

B5 Claudia:Absolutly false.  They were chocolate chip.

B5 Online:From COMM RIKE...

Question:Ivanova, you were great in "A Gnome named Gnorm"  What gives.  You
were the best  part. Yet they didn't list it in your credits.

B5 Claudia:Who didn't list it in my credits?  As far as I know it's on my
resume

B5 Online:Welcome Bruce!

B5 Bruce:hello old friends!

B5 Online:From MASWLCT, for bruce....

Question:To Bruce: How do you like the way your character has developed and
changed since its  introduction?

B5 Claudia:Claudia says: HE's got less hair

B5 Bruce:I love it !  I think JMS has given him more color and maturity.

B5 Bruce:less hair???

B5 Online:LOL.

B5 Claudia:His hair has more color and more maturity too!

B5 Online:Heres a question for both of you guys...

Question:Were either of you big fans of the Science Fiction genre before coming
to B-5, or did you  realy not take it that seriously?

B5 Bruce:Not really all Sci-Fi, but Star Wars and 2001 really do it for me.

B5 Claudia:This is my first experience in SF at this level.  I hve to say I'm
learning as I'm going.

B5 Online:Heres a question from Lilac6....

Question:When you accepted the role(s), were you made aware of the complete
story arc, and your  character's ultimate fate?

B5 Bruce:no.

B5 Claudia:Abolutely not. As JMS says if he tells you he has to kill you.

B5 Online:From Tiger9...

Question:Claudia do you have a fan club?

B5 Claudia:No, but I have a Claudia Christian chronicles, a newsletter from
England.

B5 Online:Heres a good question for Bruce from Robertede....

Question:Is it difficult to act when a lot of the action is done later using
computer generated graphics?

B5 Bruce:sometimes, yes it is.  But, we trust in the great maker to get us thru
it.

B5 Claudia:No. I love giving orders to a cardboard box.

B5 Online:From NeilC1....

Question:Claudia, comparing your current role to past roles, do you see this as
breaking away from  old stereotypes, or just another step in a progression.  Or
something else entirely.

B5 Claudia:I've been lucky enough not to be stereotyped.  I think I will
continue to play a variety of  pscho-bitch-from-hell roles.

B5 Bruce:is that who you play now?

B5 Online:From Delenn77 for both of you....

Question:Bruce/Claudia  Do you enjoy going to the conventions and interacting
with your fans?   Also are either or both of you coming to the northeast for a
convention soon?

B5 Claudia:I dig conventions, baby, and I'll be in Toronto this year

B5 Bruce:Of course I like to do the cons, when my shooting schedule permits it.
I'll be at Atlantic  City on Feb 22.

B5 Online:Maybe Bruce can shed some light on this question from B5Crazy1
without spoilers of  course.

Question:Bruce,  what is the problem between Sheridan and Garibaldi?  Does
Sheridan no longer  trust him since his abduction by the shadows.

B5 Bruce:I'm afraid you'll just have to watch...

B5 Online:From XNAXGOBBE...

Question:Bruce or Claudia, I was wondering (I'm not trying to get information
about future shows)  how much advance information are you given about the
direction the story is going, or is B5 like other  shows where information is
handed out episode by episode?

B5 Claudia:We get the scripts 3 weeks in advance and occasionally if we perform
special services for  the producers we get extra info.

B5 Online:Ok Bruce... time to fess up.  EJCaldera wants to know...

Question:What was your most embarrassing moment on the set of Babylon 5 (or, if
you're the type that doesn't embarrass easily, what was the most embarrassing
moment you witnessed - or took part in  creating - for someone else)?

B5 Claudia:Doing those extra special favors....

B5 Online:LOL

B5 Bruce:This is becoming my moment now!

B5 Online:Speaking of those "special favors..."

Question:To Claudia: did you adlib any of the Alien sex dance seen you did? It
was hilarious.

B5 Bruce:did you perform?

B5 Claudia:I choreographed the dance but the great Bard himself wrote the
rediculous lyrics.

B5 Online:From MIIB...

Question:How has it been working on Babylon 5 Bruce

B5 Bruce:Best experience in my career, with my clothes on!

B5 Online:From JenMor29....

Question:My question is for Claudia - do any of the guys play jokes on you on
camera?

B5 Claudia:If having their flies down, putting sun flower seeds in their
cheeks, and talking about multiple genitialia on the Centauri counts....YES>

B5 Bruce:back in the toilet again!

B5 Online:Heres a question from OmegaS80....

Question:Bruce>>what was your favorite episode and why

B5 Bruce:Anything with Claudia is special...

B5 Claudia:You old charmer, you.

B5 Online:Aw....

B5 Bruce:We've not shot my favorite yet.

B5 Claudia:That's the one where he dies.... I'm sorry, that was my favorite.

B5 Online:From NBA122....

Question:Bruce, how does your character view himself?  I have noticed that he
feels noticably  changed.  Is he under an external influence of Lorien?  Does
he realize it?  Does he think of himself as  alive?  What does he admit to
himself?

B5 Bruce:"yes"

B5 Online:From Keeslver...

Question:claudia, are you amazed at all the attention that B5 has brought you?

B5 Bruce:what attention????

B5 Claudia:Actually, considering I was famous in Bangladesh prior to this I'm
used to it.

B5 Online:Heres a good question from Akshav...

Question:Bruce and Claudia,        What do you like most about the respective
character that you  each portray?       What actor or actress would you cite as
having the greatest influence on your own acting  craft?

B5 Claudia:I like the fact that I have a bulge in my pants and Pee Wee Herman
is my hero.

B5 Online::-o

B5 Bruce:Claudia influences me!

B5 Online:From SpooChef (Nice Name...)

Question:Question for Bruce:  I've heard that you like horses, what is your
favorite breed and why.

B5 Bruce:American Quarter Horsed.  They are durable, smart and American!

B5 Claudia:Just like Bruce.

B5 Bruce:go for a ride?

B5 Online:Heres a question from Lorien226...

B5 Online:Im interested in both of your responses....

Question:Do you Zip then fasten, or do you fasten then zip?

B5 Online:The world wants to know.

B5 Claudia:Fasten and then zip.

B5 Bruce:zip and fasten

B5 Claudia:but we get along in spite of our differences.

B5 Online:From Aanderzak....

Question:Mr Boxleitner, how is little Michael Garrett Boxleitner doing?  He's
about 16 months old  now isn't he?

B5 Bruce:Yes, he's wonderful, walking and attempting english, thank you!

B5 Online:From KenBuzz...

Question:Hey Claudia, when can we buy that new album of yours?

B5 Claudia:Go to the Claudia Christian website and you can get the address. Or
write to 8033 Sunset  Blvd. #140, LA, CA  90046  c/o Zard Prods.

B5 Bruce:buy it and play it backwards for the secret message.

B5 Online:From We2inABQ....

Question:claudia...i just have to say you are the sexiest woman in sci-fi since
Lt.Uhura.....don't i  sound like the typical sci-fi geek?

B5 Claudia:As a matter of fact, what are you doing tomorrow night?

B5 Online:For Bruce, from MystCruz....

Question:Do you enjoy the time you put in on the show, and is it well worth the
effort to be there,  and act?

B5 Bruce:Yes, of course!

B5 Claudia:I didn't know he was acting.

B5 Online:From SteveT46...

Question:Claudia, how do you feel about Internet chat rooms since your getting
kicked on and off  from IRC while at a coffee house?  As I recall, they thought
you an imposter.

B5 Claudia:I've had all the perpetrators sent to IO.

B5 Online:From TWandCrew for both Bruce and Claudia....

Question:Bruce & Claudia - is there anything (other than write to WB and our
local stations) that  we fans can do to get across to WB just how much we want
to see the show renewed for that fifth year?  PS  everyone at the J&D forum
says Hi.

B5 Claudia:Don't burn flags but pickett.

B5 Bruce:All you want is a fifth year?

B5 Claudia:Bruce and I are counting on B5 - The Golden Years.

B5 Online:Heres a question for Bruce....

Question:Your last cybertalk was with JMS, and it was great!! Do you treat him
that way all the  time?  How inportant is humor on you set?

B5 Online:We have time for a few more questions tonight, we'll try and stay on
as long as we can,

B5 Bruce:Humor is very important on the set, but with JMS and Cludia on set,
how could it not be

B5 Bruce:FUN

B5 Online:Since everyone is asking, can you give everyone to send you letters
of encouragement?

B5 Online:er.. an address

B5 Bruce:Write to the B5 Fan Club, P.O. Box 856, N. Hollywood, 91603

B5 Online:Ok... the multi-million dollar question....

OnlineHost: Are you renewed for season 5 yet??

B5 Claudia:We never hear  until the last minute! You know that!!! I'm activly
pursuing stand up

B5 Bruce:good luck

B5 Online:From LadyZarya...

Question:With regard to the nature of the arc, do you know the ultimate
destination or do you take  it script to script?

B5 Claudia:I love you, Brucey.

B5 Bruce:script to script, generally.

B5 Claudia:Is this a Noah reference?

B5 Online:Heres a good question for you and your agents....

B5 Online:From PBorroniv...

Question:Have you been approached about the rumored spin-off. Will you be in
the movies that  we've heard about?

B5 Claudia:I've heard the title is "Claudia's Crusades"

B5 Bruce:Bruce, the Star Captain, I heard...

B5 Claudia:Yes, I'll be in both movies and so will Bruce.

B5 Online:From Vorlon333...

Question:My question is for Bruce.. How do you feel about the show so far, and
do yoo plan to do  anything of this nature after Babylon 5??

B5 Bruce:First, I love being a part of B5. I believe in B5.

B5 Online:(He says after being confirmed for the 2 movies by Claudia)

B5 Bruce:I certainly don't think there will be anything like it for a while.

B5 Online:We still have time for a couple more questions. :)

B5 Online:From KrisBrit...

Question:Hi Claudia, I read that you have children's books due out. Can you
tell us anything about  this endeavor?

B5 Claudia:It's called "The misadventures of Ms. Emma Bradford" and they're
geared toward ten to  fourteen year olds.  They're educational and hopefully
will be available next year.

B5 Online:Heres a good question for Bruce....

Question:Is there anything you would like to change in your character?To maybe
represent more of  you!

B5 Claudia:I'd like Bruce to have that neat feathered hair-syle he had on
Scarecrow...

B5 Bruce:It would be awkward to ride my Quarter Horse thru the Zocalo, but
never underestimate  JMS.

B5 Online:Heres one from Capercail....

OnlineHost: Bruce and Claudia, what have been your favorite episodes?

B5 Claudia:There's a new question... TKO and Born to the Purple

B5 Bruce:In the Shadow of Z'Ha'Dum, and Z'Ha'Dum.  Truthfully, it's a hard
choice.

B5 Online:From DVasilas....

Question:Claudia, do you wish they had written a relationship for you and
Bruce?

B5 Bruce:YES

B5 Bruce:YES

B5 Bruce:YES

B5 Claudia:Absolutely, I fantisize it all the time and I'm very angry at JMS
for not pursuing it.

B5 Claudia:Obviously the chemistry is there.

B5 Online:From Mrs King2....

Question:Hi Bruce - I am a big Scarecrow and Mrs King fan (can you tell from my
screen name?)  Any possibility of a reunion movie?

B5 Claudia:With or without Kate?

B5 Bruce:If Kate wants to, I would be there in a heartbeat!

B5 Online:We have time for 3 more questions tonight. :)

B5 Online:From BRajswass....

Question:claudia do you know if susan ever falls in love with marcus.

B5 Claudia:As far as I can gather it is an unrequited love.  Ivanova is
destined for celibacy.

B5 Bruce:ugh!

B5 Claudia:You're just jealous...

B5 Claudia:There may be some truth to the rumor about Sheridan and Marcus...

B5 Online:From WJMII....

Question:Bruce, how was it working with your wife  and do you see a chance to
work with her in  the movies planned for TNT.

B5 Bruce:First, We've worked together a few times.  It was great. Unless there
is a chance of surviving a nuke, she won't be back...

B5 Claudia:Hey, you survived!

B5 Bruce:Thanks B5 Online!

B5 Online:Our last question is from Lionklaw....

B5 Online:For Claudia...

Question:To Bruce. Is Sinclair Sheridian's and Delenns son?

B5 Online:oops... wrong one.. sorry. ;>

B5 Claudia:No, I am!

B5 Online:We'll have one more question for Claudia before we close.

OnlineHost: claudia, when the captain left ivanova in charge of the station did
you feel

OnlineHost: a surge of power?  And what was it like?

B5 Bruce:oh baby, oh baby

B5 Claudia:It was like taking an ounce of sawpalmetto and watching THE WILD
BUNCH.

B5 Claudia:Before I embarrass myself anymore I just want to say thank you to
everyone out there  who has been supportive of B5.  We love you.

B5 Bruce:thank you all for stopping by tonite.  Thanks for watching.

B5 Online:I want to thank our special guests tonight, Bruce Boxleitner and
Claudia Christian for  joining us tonight! Next week at 8PM, be sure to join us
with Mira Furlan and Bill Mumy - the Minbari  delegation from Babylon 5!

B5 Online:We invite everyone to check out the latest preview for "Into The
Fire" at Keyword: Babylon 5! Thanks again, and goodnight.



Document ID: bb0203
