OnlineHost: Copyright 1995 America Online, Inc.

 OnlineHost: Good evening! Tonight, OMNI Online is pleased to take you
behind the scenes of TV's "Babylon 5" with costume designer Ann Bruice and
production designer John Iacovelli. Ann Bruice began her costume design
career in regional theatre, designing numerous productions for South Coast
Repertory.

 OnlineHost: She received 1991 and 1992 Los Angeles Drama Critics Circle
Awards for her work on that company's production of "You Can't Take It
With You." She has also designed several productions for the Mark Taper
Forum and the Los Angeles Theatre Center.

 OnlineHost: Besides "Babylon 5," her film and television work includes
"Perfect Date," an ABC Afterschool Special; "Siringo," a TV movie; and
HONEY, I SHRUNK THE KIDS, for which she served as assistant designer.

 OnlineHost: John Iacovelli designed "Twilight of the Golds" on Broadway,
and he has designed more than 100 productions at theatres across the
nation, including five productions for the Mark Taper Forum and nine for
the Los Angeles Theatre Center. He won the 1991 Los Angeles Drama Critics
Circle Award for his design of "Heartbreak House" for South Coast
Repertory.

 OnlineHost: In addition, he was the design consultant for Walt Disney
Imagineering on the Florida attractions of The Tower of Terror and the
Backstage Studio Tour. Welcome, Ann and John!

 AnnBatB5: Thank you, it's a pleasure to be here.

 JohnIatB5: Hi! Great to be here!

 ErinM: It's great to have you here! Before we begin taking audience
questions, could you explain a bit about your jobs on B5? Ann, will you
start us off?

 AnnBatB5: I'm responsible for conceiving and drawing designs for all
costumes for the regular cast human and alien that appear on Babylon 5. I
choose fabrics, I attend all fittings. I make all decisions on detail, and
keep an eye on the costumes appear on camera.

 ErinM: Thanks, Ann! Your turn, John. :)

 JohnIatB5: I'm responsible for the visual look of the show in relation to
whenever live actors are on set and I collaborate with the producers and
the wizards at Foundation Imaging on the look of CG in relation to our
sets.  Right now we have about 65 sets that rotate depending on scripts
and my department is responsible for creating these worlds that consist of
everything from kitchen sinks to futuristic devices for information and
weapons, etc.

 ErinM: Thanks, John! We have our first question from the audience...

 Question: What changes can we expect in the look/feel of the show in
season 3 (without giving anything away, of course)?

 JohnIatB5: Several new sets and a new and improved med-bay and an
upgraded Zocalo plus some sweet surprises in store. We are considering all
of our sets just as we did at the beginning of the second season.

 ErinM: We've lost Ann Bruice for the moment. I'm sure she'll get signed
right back on. Until she does, John, can you eleborate at all on that last
question without giving away any more secrets?

 JohnIatB5: And this means that becasue our show is in analog time we can
improve our sets just as people would improve their surroundings today.

 ErinM: Welcome back, Ann! The question is still the one about changes in
the look/feel of the show in season 3.

 AnnBatB5: We are introducing a new recurring character which involves a
new design for us. In the first episode, we are revealing a new set that
we think will be our most spectacular set to date. Delenn and Lennier have
additional new looks to accomodate some new and varied activities. We are
also continuing to define new background alien races and delinate between
groups of aliens G'Kar's look is changing somewhat this season as is
Londo's to again facilitate continuing character changes. In the broad
specturm we continue to try to refine and enhance both day players and
recurring cast members' looks, as well as all of our background extras. 

 OnlineHost: For those newcomers in the audience: OMNI Online is pleased
to take you behind the scenes of TV's "Babylon 5" with costume designer
Ann Bruice and production designer John Iacovelli. If you have any
questions about how the auditorium works, please feel free to contact our
usher, OMNI Muse, by instant message.

 JohnIatB5: We are going to greater pains to make the quarters feel more
lived in and less like hotel rooms.

 ErinM: Another question from the audience...

 Question: Ms. Bruice, I love your contribution to the show...it wouldn't
be the same. How do you decide which style fits each character? It seems
that you design the clothes to reflect the character.

 AnnBatB5: I take my inspiration from Joe who always is available to
discuss with me the background, history, pyschological makeup of each
character as they evolve.  Wetry to make sense of not just interesting
looks, but looks that tie and understanding of past, present, and future
to specific characters and their individual needs.

 Question: Question for John Iacovelli: Considering your background with
the NASA Hydroponic module and Pavilion of the future, how much of the B5
design is plausible real science as opposed to necessary for the plot but
not well grounded in science?

 JohnIatB5: The most important thing in the design of the sets is to
fulfill the dramatic function of the scenes. Now sometimes we have to bend
science to our liking and sometimes we get great inspiration from
scientific phenomena, but as Joe says, you guys are out there watching us
so we try to do things that have a foundation in hard science.

 Question: Which species of alien poses the greatest challenges when it
comes to wardrobe and/or makeup?

 AnnBatB5: Probably the Narns. Because the look that has been designed for
G'Kar is so complex and layered that any other Narn appearing in the
series has to similarly evoke the same strength and complexity, while
allowing G'Kar to remain the strongest Narn figure we see.

 Question: Is designing for B5 similar or totally dissimilar to anything
either of you has done before?

 JohnIatB5: It's not similar to anything because we produce the show in an
unorthodox way. One of the things we've always told Joe is to simply tell
the story and we will do whatever we can to fulfill the story's needs
which means that instead of one new set per episode sometimes we have more
than five. So we need to be as flexible as possible because we can't make
Joe write for only the sets that we have and Babylon 5 is a big place. We
want to show it off a bit. Now we don't have laundromat sets like
"SeaQuest," but there probably is one on B5.

 AnnBatB5: In many ways it's been a similar project in that I research and
discuss and evolve designs based on character development. The main
difference has been the speed and scope of each continuing episode. We
have seven days to prepare an episode and that's very different from the
six weeks I used to get on a theatre production. Joe and John Copeland are
also surprisingly more accessible to me as advisors than other producers
and directors have been to me in the past, which makes the rapid pace
manageable. It's also different in that the world is so entirely eclectic
and that there are fewer rules about period and line and shape and texture
that have to be adhered to. 

 JohnIatB5: What Ann says goes for me, too, and I base a lot of the look
of the show on research and in a curious way the legacy of over sci-fi
design from the history of sci-fi, a rich history book.

 Question: Will the uniforms be changing for the 3rd season and how will
they be changing?

 AnnBatB5: If I tell you Joe will have to kill both you and me.

 Question: Ann: what sorts of materials do you use most? Natural fibers or
synthetic? Which do youQuestion prefer? PS -- love your work on B5!!!

 AnnBatB5: I prefer and always use whenever possible natural fibers. 
Particularly we use a great deal of silk, brocades and other prints along
with wools, leathers and some rayons. My love for combining fabrics in
interesting ways and finessing details, trims and fastenings etc. keep
this world a  constant delight.

 Question: I noticed that during the 2nd season, Londo's quarters and
clothes have been getting more opulent as he rises in influence. Can you
tell us what you've been doing to create this impression?

 JohnIatB5: Last season we painted a portrait, and this season his
quarters have had many upgrades, including a lot of gifts he's been
getting from people wishing favors.

 AnnBatB5: Londo has evolved in my mind from a buffoonish character to one
who has become more serious and darker. His look has changed to
accommodate this development in his character. The silhouette has remained
the same but the colors of fabric have changed noticably, he no longer
wears a purple coat, rather one of dark navy, and this season you'll
notice that even his colorful vests are gone.

 JohnIatB5: The tone of the set and the set dressing has gotten more
serious -- more like Peter the Great rather than Liberace.

 Question: Ms. Bruice, I especially loved the costume designs for
Deathwalker and Ambassador G'Kar. Am I nuts, or is there a recurring 'eye'
motif on his uniform?

 AnnBatB5: Very good, there is an eye motif in G'Kars.

 Question: Do you ask the actors what they would like to have in their
characters' quarters to make them more personal?

 JohnIatB5: For example, things like laundry lying out, dishes in the
sink, books and papers lying out, plus more photos of family and friends.

 Question: John - is there any particular inspiration for the look of
Bab5?

 JohnIatB5: I like everything. I wanted the future to seem more like the
present and not like a sterile, vacu-formed spaceship. I felt if people
are really living here, there would be a certain amount of clutter and
selective chaos.

 Question: Question for Ann Bruice:  When making costumes for aliens, how
do you work with the make-up people...is it coordinated or do the make-up
effects come first and then the costumes are designed to fit the look?

 AnnBatB5: Often we try to coordinate the sensibilities of the aliens. I
try to work with Optic Nerve to ensure that the head meets the body in
some sensible way. We talk about similiar qualities textures and colors
and the flow of the total being. Truthfully, often the look of the
prosthetic comes somewhat earlier and from that I have understanding what
direction to go.

 ErinM: Folks, I've been informed that one of the B5 newsletters said that
Jerry Doyle would be attending tonight's conference. I'm afraid that he's
not scheduled to attend. But we'll see what we can do to schedule him for
a future conference. :) As a matter of fact, B5 producer John Copeland
tells me that Jerry is out of town shooting an episode for another series
tonight. Back to the audience questions for John Iacovelli and Ann
Bruice...

 Question: Mr. Iacovelli, How much of what we see on the screen is a
physical set, and how much of it is CGI?

 JohnIatB5: It depends on the shot. For example, in the Zen Garden the
only real set that exists is the set that is immediately behind the
actors. The rest of it is CG, and we do this in the docking bay a lot ,and
I think that we use this kind of virtual set better than any other show. I
dare you to find all of the CG sets because we integrate them so well.

 AnnBatB5: John, you're being modest. We do it more and better than any
other show.

 ErinM: By the way, the other series that Jerry Doyle will be appearing on
as a guest star is "Renegades."

 Question: John: Babylon 5 looks great, apparently on a budget that is a
fraction of "that other SF show".  How do you do it?

 JohnIatB5: We're smarter. Actully we have many modular set pieces and we
often repaint and use the same pieces over again. This helps to stretch
our budget.

 Question: Will we see any ceremonial dress from any homeworlds?

 AnnBatB5: You see ceremonial dress already. Minbari celebrations,
particularly religious Centuari celebrations, have included opulent
orgiastic looks. Narn ceremonial dress includes G'Kar's prayer robe and
talus while practicing the faith of G'Quan. Other ceremonial dress has
been used with the ambassadors of the non-aligned worlds in the council.
So G'Kar, Delenn, and Londo have always had special looks only worn for
council meetings and ceremonies. And for that matter, the Earth Alliance
has dress uniforms worn for special occasions. We will continue to
introduce other looks for alien cultures as the opportunity present
themselves in the scripts.

 ErinM: Folks, we've got time for just one more question for John and Ann
tonight...

 Question: Are u involved in any theatrical prouctions currently - and if
not, do u miss not working in the theatre? Is that where your heart
belongs?

 JohnIatB5: I just recently completed some designs over the summer, and I
am currently working on a show at South Coast Rep, but it's now more for
love than for money, and my theatrical roots help me stay current in the
sense that I don't design the way a typical television designer designs.

 AnnBatB5: This is the most theatrical project I've ever worked on, and
for now this is where my heart belongs. However, I recently designed a
production of "Blythe Spirit" with Jean Stapleton at South Coast Rep which
was a delight. I find it difficult to balance the two and for now have
chosen to do only B5.

 ErinM: I'd like to thank Ann Bruice and John Iacovelli from "Babylon 5"
for giving us a glimpse behind the scenes of the show. Thanks for being
our guests tonight! The complete transcript of this conference will be
available tomorrow in teh OMNI Online Conference Logs Library. To get
there, go to keyword: OMNI, click on File Libraries in the scrollbox and
then click on Conference Logs. I'd like to thank Ann and John, our
wonderful usher, OMNI Muse, and all of you for attending. Good night!

 JohnIatB5: Thanks, this was fun. Keep watching!

 AnnBatB5: It has been a real pleasure. Thanks for asking.

 OnlineHost: Copyright 1995 America Online, Inc.


Transmitted: 10/15/95 3:36 AM

