The following is a transcript of the live chat with BILL MUMY and MIRA
FURLAN of
Babylon 5, held on Monday, February 10th at 8PM ET in the Globe Auditorium on
America Online.

B5 Online:Warner Bros. Online Presents: CYBERTALK (tm)

B5 MiraF:Hello, Everyone - I'm here.

B5 Online:Tonight we are please to bring you the Minbari delegation from
Babylon 5! Id like to welcome Mira Furlan and Bill Mumy to our online
community!  Welcome!

B5 BillM:Flok Sha everyone!

B5 MiraF:Thanks

B5 Online:So, let me tell everyone how to send in their questions and we'll get
this thing going!

OnlineHost:The auditorium consists of two major areas: the audience, where you
are right now, and the stage, where the speakers appear. Text which you type
onscreen shows only to those in your row, prefaced by the row number in
parentheses, such as (2) if you are in row 2. To interact with the speaker, use
the Interact icon on your screen.

OnlineHost:To send your question to the speaker, click on the Interact icon,
then use the Ask a Question option.

B5 Online:Here is our first question from RVaug5949... For both of you. :)

B5 BillM:Just so you normal humans out there know, Mira and I are having these
questions screened for us.

Question:RVAUG59495 "Will both of characters appear in the spinoff THE RANGERS?

B5 MiraF:I have no clue.  I wish I had.

B5 BillM:I have no idea about the spinoff.  Maybe yes.  We'll have to see.

B5 Online:Our next question comes from Foxx3...

Question:This is to both Ms. Furlan and Mr. Mumy:  You are both very
distinguished actors and i was wondering what made you decide to be on Babylon
5?

B5 BillM:I've always loved sci-fi fantasy projects, and was ready to come back
to it.

B5 MiraF:It was a very unusual and interesting and strong character for me to
play.

B5 BillM:And aren't we all glad that you're here Mira!  You're the best.

B5 Online:The next question is for Mira from Thinkum...

Question:Mira, do you get to wear a wig, or do they have to work that wonderful
bone "tiara" into your real hair?

B5 MiraF:It is my own hair.

B5 Online:Heres an interesting question from MalleyDat, want to field this one,
Bill?

Question:With the unusual and prophetic dreams of the Babylon 5 staff and
ambassadors, have you had any similar fascinating dreams with you as
Delenn/Lennier?

B5 BillM:I have pretty hot dreams about Delenn.  Don't think they'll make it to
prime time.  Too sexy.

B5 MiraF:Oh, my god. Please stop!

B5 BillM:Never!

B5 Online:Heres a question you both can field from MalleyDat...

Question:There's always coincidences in people's lives. What coincidences
regarding your life and maybe or maybe not regarding Babylon5 have caused you
to reflect and possibly reconsider something important in your (real) life?

B5 BillM:Uh...Uh....let's see...Don't get blown up by aliens.

B5 MiraF:There are a lot of coincidences between my own life and my life as
Delenn

B5 BillM:There's nothing important in real life.  IT's all in the mind you
know.

B5 MiraF:I think that Joe is inspired by some elements of whats going on in the
former Yugoslavia and it reflects in the show.

B5 BillM:Joe and I both read too many comic books.

B5 Online:Heres one for Bill From WaywardFl....

Question:For Bill: Space Cases is terrific! The kids want to know: will
Catalina be back? Did you plan on Susie entering the series? Why didn't you use
the J.S. teddy bear when a teddy bear appeared in the Space Cases episode? ;-)
Thanks

B5 BillM:Thank you!  We brought Cat back once second season, and hope to see
her return if we get the third season pickup.  And, that WAS the B5 bear!  Just
without the baseball outfit.

B5 Online:From DNmass....

Question:Mira and Bill, both of your performances have been incredible. For
Mira, how hard is it working in this type of program compared to films?

B5 MiraF:I'm used to going in and out of projects and once I finish with them
I'm used to forgetting about them.  Of course, Babylon 5 is something
differrent.

B5 BillM:In tv, you have to work much faster.

B5 Online:Here ya go Bill... from Timebaron... ;>

Question:Will Lennier become a larger part of the show in the sense that his
direct actions precipitate something that changes the arc?

B5 BillM:Uh, I don't know.  Ask Joe.  I just hit my mark and read my lines and
wear my bone and dress. Actually, going into that deeper, Lennier is always
saving the day, and that definityly effects the arc, eh?  Or we'd all have
blown up a bunch of times!

B5 MiraF:It would definitely change Delenn's feelings.

B5 Online:Heres a question you have probably been asked... but its one I always
find interesting.... From Thrasher0...

Question:This is a question for Both Bill and Mira, On all of the B5 Episodes
you've worked on which one was your favorite.

B5 BillM:Uh, hard to seperate them, cuz they all are part of the whole.  I love
the one where Lennier first kicked butt.

B5 MiraF:My favorites are "Comes the Inquisitor" and "Confessions and
Lamentations"  "Severed Dreams" was also an interesting one for me.

B5 Online:Heres a question for Bill....From ZaBaGaBe

Question:For Bill: We've seen you and several members of the David family on
Space Cases so far...when will we see more members of the Mumy family?

B5 BillM:Can't afford them.

B5 Online:(Id like to point out that both Bill and son Seth can be seen in the
movie Three Wishes, available to rent at your local video store)

B5 BillM:Just kidding.  I'd love to use more Mumy's in Space Cases.  Seth also
was in Dear God, and a recent Dark Skies episode.

B5 Online:From Frank2641....

OnlineHost: To Mira: Is B5 big in Yugoslavia?

B5 MiraF:It's not shown there. Croatian television bought Voyager instead.

B5 Online:Heres a question from Glithcali....

Question:Question for Both: Last week the comradery (sp?) between Claudia and
Bruce was entertaining....is this a normal thing on the set??  How many members
of the main cast do you joke with and associate with outside of B5??

B5 BillM:We all play gin every Saturday night at Joes house.

B5 BillM:Or not.

B5 MiraF:The cast of B5 is one of the greatest pleasures of working on the show

B5 BillM:One of them.

B5 BillM:The other is wearing the bone.

B5 MiraF:Yes, we communicate outside the show.

B5 BillM:Why tonight, Mira and I are going out for a snack!

B5 Online:Im sure a lot of people are wondering, Bill, but WJMII asked
first....

Question:Bill, a little of the topic of B5 but what is your opinion of the
announcment of the Lost In Space movie and are you involved in any way?

B5 BillM:No comment on the Lost in SPace movie yet.

B5 Online:A question for Mira from CLOWNBOB....

Question:Mira: Do you think B5 is one of the best shows you have been apart of?
( be honest)

B5 MiraF:I don't like comparing things. I like the fact that things are
different not "better" or "worse".  Also you can't compare this kind of show to
anything I"ve done before.

B5 Online:From J1harper1 for Bill...

Question:Bill, have enjoyed your work since Lost in Space and now my son really
enjoys Space Cases.  Good work on Babylon 5 as well!!  Do you think there is a
chance for romance with Delenn?

B5 BillM:Well, in his heart Lennier loves Delenn, but he knows she's destined
for another, so I don't think you'll ever see him make "a move".  Too bad...
But the angst makes the character more interesting to play. Do you think there
should be a Lennier Delenn romance? And thanks for the kind words.  I loved
Lost in SPace and Space Cases.

B5 MiraF:Delenn have had enough romances, real ones and potential ones.
Remember Sinclair...Let's not overwhelm  her.

B5 Online:A favorite question from your convention appearances... maybe you
won't elaborate with Mira being right there... but GaryZepHe asks....  be
warned....

Question:Bill and/or Mira.... please tell us about the practical joke Bill
pulled on Jason Carter.... about him supposedly being killed off last
season....

B5 Online:And have you forgiven Bill, Mira? :D

B5 BillM:Let me say this for the last time.  It was JOES JOKE!  I was his
instrument. I was cruel.  I convinced Jason, that Marcus was being killed off.
He bought it. It wasn't very nice of me.  Mira spanked me into seeing the right
thing.

B5 Online:Oooh.... Minbaris have all the fun.

B5 BillM:I apologized.  I could tell this in a very funny way, but ....I won't.

B5 MiraF:I'm not a big admirer of practical jokes. They seem cruel and
unnecessary. to me... Or maybe I don't have that sense of humor.

B5 BillM:Jason was a good sport.  Joe and I both bought him gifts.  We
grovelled.

B5 BillM:You had to be there.

B5 Online:From KRoss5225 for Mira....

Question:Mira:  Has Joe (JMS, Kosh, Valen, whatever he is going by today) said
if John and Deleen are getting married?  And if so, will it be on the show?

B5 BillM:Keep watching.

B5 MiraF:Let it remain a mystery.

B5 BillM:Put it this way, IF so... It won't be on another show!  It'll happen
only on B5

B5 Online:Another question from ZaBaGaBe....

Question:For Bill: There have been several references to Barnes and Barnes on
Space Cases (from the Lumanians to Voobanahavopbop) -- will there be more, or
will we see the Jenerators there?

B5 BillM:Ooops.  Sure.  As much inside stuff as I can stick in, I will.  It
makes me and a small circle of people chuckle.  I hope to continue doing stuff
like that. Don't think the Jenerators will show up soon though. But I DO have a
solo album coming out on Infinite Visions label this month.

B5 Online:For both of you from Morden226...

Question:Hey folks!  Is working with Joe an inspiration?  Does his dedication
(hours and hours and hours) ever make you wonder where he gets all his energy
from? Have you checked to see if he's a robot? :)

B5 BillM:Joe is pretty amazing!  His work is really great.  He's a fun guy.

B5 BillM:I think he gets that energy from Flarn.

B5 MiraF:It is a great inspiration. I wish I had five percent of that energy.
My question is... does he ever sleep?

B5 BillM:Not with me.

B5 Online:Here ya go Bill, your big chance... from DMReda...

Question:Bill: If B5 were being re-cast, which character (besides Lennier)
would you like to play?

B5 BillM:That's a good question.  I'd say Sheridan.

B5 BillM:Or the bartender.

B5 MiraF:I'd like to play a telepath. #

B5 BillM:I'd like to BE a telepath.

B5 MiraF:I thought you were.

B5 BillM:Heh Heh. I knew that.

B5 Online:From Wolffgang....

Question:this is for mira: are you active in speaking out on the current
situation in the former yugoslavia?

B5 MiraF:I don't know exactly what you mean by "active".  I would say that I'm
still very involved but I don't want to deal with politics because it's
corrupted and evil.  I feel defeated.  All the people who spoke against this
war have been defeated. The  war mongers have won big time.

B5 BillM:Unlike shobiz

B5 Online:Heres your chance to write the rest of Lennier's story, Bill... from
Dtucker93....

Question:Bill, What do you want for your character's future?

B5 BillM:I want hair and a bone loss, and normal ears and pants.

B5 BillM:I'd also like another season for the show.  How about you guys?

B5 Online:Speaking for the audience, I believe that is a unanimous YES!

B5 BillM:I think Lennier is a cool, efficient, noble, loyal capable guy. I like
playing him.  He just happens to be a Minbari.

B5 MiraF:We all just happen to be something.

B5 BillM:We've had Tony Dow directing a few shows lately.  That's been great!

B5 Online:For Mira, From  BLCK OMEG.... Question:MIRA>>>>As an original cast
member...Did you think B5 was going to take off like it has?

B5 BillM:Have we taken off?

B5 MiraF:No. This is a wonderful surprise for me. As a true Eastern European I
always expect the worst.

B5 BillM:Taken off like we have.... I don't get it.  mean, we're not exactly
Seinfeld. We are a great show.  But we're not top of the pops.  Are we?

B5 MiraF:But we are surviving.  How many Sienfeld cons have you been to?

B5 BillM:Tell me if we are!  I want to renegotiate!

B5 BillM:You mean you missed the big Elaine Con in France? It was great.

B5 Online:Heres a musical question for Bill from ComicWhiz. :D

Question:Bill>> how is the gutar coming? i heard you play it on lost in space
and never agian!

B5 BillM:Well, you haven't looked too hard.  I play all the time.  Lots of
records out and always gigging somewhere.  New album, Dying to Be Heard, out
this month on Infinite Visions label.  The one that put out Brent SPiner's CD.
Check it out.

B5 Online:From Ausavar for Mira....

Question:Do you have any more European or American films in the works Mira for
after B5?

B5 MiraF:I can't talk about anything that's not definite. I'm supersticious

B5 Online:We have time for a couple more questions this evening before we have
to move out So heres one for both of you...  From CLOWNBOB:

Question:Both: What is the most embarrassing event in the filming of B% for
you? :)

B5 BillM:That's a hard one....thinking...

B5 BillM:Having my wife and son come to the set the first episode I did and
them not being able to recognize me!

B5 MiraF:It's always embarassing when you can't do a 5 page monologue in one
take and that happens often.

B5 BillM:Mira, you're always great! REALLY!

B5 MiraF:Thank you, Bill.

B5 Online:Do either of you have any conventions soon you want to let people
know about?

B5 BillM:No.

B5 MiraF:I'm doing a con in Alberta, Canada in March.

B5 BillM:You're such a jet setter.

B5 MiraF:Yeah, that's me.

B5 Online:From Johngf2....

Question:I saw you both in the SFVortex war room. do you hang out together
alot?

B5 MiraF:Sometimes.

B5 BillM:Yeah. Do you blame me?  I mean, you'd want to hang out with you too if
you could.

B5 Online:Heres a question for both of ya...

Question:Do you sign autographs through the mail and what is the address to
write to both of you at?

B5 BillM:Write to B5 fan club.

B5 Online:We have time for one more question each...

B5 MiraF:You can write to the B5 Fan Club at PO Box 856, N. Hollywood, CA
91603, or.. Mira's Fan Club is PO Box 523093 Springfield, VA 22152

B5 BillM:Thanks for the support folks. We really do like being a part of this
show.  We work hard and we're proud of it.

B5 Online:For Bill, from Eidelon...

Question:Bill, Does Lennier ever get to show some more of his fighting skills
like when he saved Lando's butt?

B5 BillM:Yes.  He's got some more "action" scenes coming up. I think. Or maybe
they cut them out.

B5 Online:And our last question of the night for Mira....

Question:This is for Mira:  Is it hard to play a character like Delenn or are
you a lot like her in real life?

B5 MiraF:It's not hard because it's interesting and fun.  I enjoy the
combination between different elements of her personality. She's vulnerable but
tough, strong but gentle. sensitive, in one word, she's a very rich character.
Very rarely a character like  that comes across, especially when you're a
woman.

B5 Online:Id like to thank both Bill Mumy and Mira Furlan for joining us
tonight - it was a GREAT pleasure having you both back in our forum!  Feel free
to stop by any time.. any closing thoughts?

B5 BillM:Do the best you can and can the best you do.

B5 MiraF:Keep on caring about us.  It makes us happy.  Bye-bye.

B5 Online:Thanks again you two... keep up the great work, everyone supports you
and the show.

B5 BillM:Send money.

B5 BillM:I want a Lennier action figure!

B5 Online:Bill... with mighty fighting action?

B5 BillM:Push his bone he kicks.

B5 BillM:Flok sha!\




Document ID: mf0210
