The following is a transcript of the online conference with Peter Jurasik and
Stephen Furst of "Babylon 5," held on Monday, February 17th on America Online.


B5 Online:C) 1997 Warner Bros. Online

B5 Online:Welcome to CYBERTALK!

B5 Online:Tonight we are joined by the Centauri Delegation from "Babylon 5!"  I
would like to welcome both Peter Jurasik and Stephen Furst to our online
community tonight!

OnlineHost:The auditorium consists of two major areas: the audience, where you
are right now, and the stage, where the speakers appear. Text which you type
onscreen shows only to those in your row, prefaced by the row number in
parentheses, such as (2) if you are in row 2. To interact with the speaker, use
the Interact icon on your screen.

B5 Online:Welcome you two!

B5 Peter:Hey, we're happy to be here.

B5 Stephen:Thanks for having us.

B5 Peter:My first question is for Stephen Steve, I really enjoy your work with
the Londo character, is he as sexy onstage as offstage, and be honest

B5 Online:Waitaminit waitaminit... IM IN CHARGE HERE.    Sheesh, give a guy
Prime Minister status and he takes over the world.

B5 Peter:Not the world just the internet

B5 Stephen:He looks great without his fright wig on!

B5 Online:Our first question tonight comes from Thinkum....

Question:Just looking at Centauri hairstyles (male and female) makes my hair
hurt, and at last week's chat session, Bill Mumy expressed a strong wish to do
away with his character's bone, lack of hair, etc.  If you could change any
part of your makeup/costuming, would you?

B5 Stephen:I wouldn't wear underwear.

B5 Peter:And I'd have three less tenticles.

B5 Online:Hmmmm

B5 Peter:Six really ruins the profile of my pants.

B5 Peter:Seriously, I don't think I'd change anything.  I wish the makeup time
was shorter...

B5 Online:From SGBruckner.... For Peter:

Question:Peter:  I met you on Friday when you were on the set with Benjamin.
Hi.  Your son is very cute! Where would you like to see your character go as
far as the storyline is concerned?  Have you enjoyed playing Londo?

B5 Peter:Of course I've enjoyed playing Londo.  As far as my son being cute,
what am  I chopped liver? And as far as where Londo goes we have a pretty good
writer already so I'll go where he sends me.  But if he asks, I'll take more
love scenes.

B5 Online:Here's a question from Khasatin....For Stephen:

Question:Stephen, what was it like working with John Belushi and Howie Mandel

B5 Stephen:One's dead and one's still alive.

B5 Online:From WaywardFl.... for both of you:

Question:For Peter and Stephen: Your work is terrific, many thanks! Are there
ever times talking to JMS  that you want to 'stick up for' your character, i.e.
"Gosh, don't you think you've dumped on this poor guy enough already?"

B5 Peter:I actually complain fairly often to Joe...but he doesn't listen. And
that's the truth. More importantly, he usually right.  Who does he think he is
the executive Producer/Writer?

B5 Stephen:The last time I complained to Joe I was assigned toilet detail in
the Vorlon section

B5 Peter:So when everyone is in the Eclipse Cafe, and I'm lurking, why is
everyone flirting... instead of discussing seriously my acting in Babylon 5?
Enough about Londo, let's... talk about me for awhile.  Now I"ll be quiet.

B5 Online:Not quiet for long, Peter... here's a question from Starfury3....

Question:Mr Jurassik, thanks for being with us tonight  my question is: Londo
has the most depth of any of the B5 Characters is that all your acting ability
or is some of that your  personality showing through?

B5 Peter:It may just seem that way but most of it is good acting coaching from
Stephen... He taught me everything I know. Thanks for the compliment. Good
scripts and good characters make the difference.

B5 Online:Here's a question from RBilyeu54, that could be a long answer, but
can you give us some insight, Stephen?

Question:Steve, you directed tis weeks episode. Tell us about the experiance.

B5 Stephen:I get to go to the front of the line at lunch when I'm directing,
that was quite an experience. I really enjoyed directing the actors were great.

B5 Peter:Stephen is too modest....It's not Vir directing the difference is
quite amazing.

B5 Online:Stephen's other directing projects, "Magic Kid" and "Magic Kid 2" are
both available on video and laserdisk too I believe.

B5 Stephen:You forgot to mention Cycle Sluts is also available on laserdisc.

B5 Peter:And don't forget "Love me, Love my Dog. "Stephen was excellent.

B5 Online:From Sonogump for Peter....

Question:We know nothing is certain at this point regarding the fifth season,
has JMS approached you regarding your interest in being in the rumoured sequel
series?

B5 Peter:Yes.  I understand it's going to be narrated by Londo as an old man to
some children. Sounds interesting, no? And I don't think sequel is the word.
Try prequel. I don't know about the sequel.  I don't think the aliens are in
it.

B5 Stephen:I'll be guest starring on the Wayan Brothers, as the missing brother
during the filming of the sequel.

B5 Online:For Stephen from Iyneferti:

Question:Stephen Furst - First of all I'd like to say how great you are
looking, it is really an inspiration to many of us here.  Question:  When you
began as Vir did you realize the character would go from being almost comic
relief to becoming one of the heros

B5 Stephen:When I began playing Vir I first thought I was on the wrong sound
stage and then I became the comic relief.

B5 Online:From SueLuvB5.... here ya go Peter! :)

Question:Londo - first you were a good guy - than bad - now good.  Which do YOU
prefer ?

B5 Peter:Oh, a lot more fun to play bad.  You're just playing at it so you
don't get the consequences.

B5 Online:From BertieK....

Question:Question for Peter: Have you sold the Porsche yet? Is it too late to
place a bid?

B5 Peter:It is too late.  It sold to a Chuck Wingo in Georgia.  He made a
really great offer.... I'll be able to make a nice donation to charity in the
name of the fans.

B5 Online:Heres a question for Stephen:  From Unixfan....

Question:Stephen:  Saw "Illusion of Truth" (your B5 directing debut).  It is an
unusual episode even for B5.  What did you learn as a director with this
episode?

B5 Online:Besides how to get first in line at lunch.

B5 Stephen:How to turn the camera on.

B5 Online:Heres a question for both of you from KentCK...

Question:For both: What has been your most embarassing moment on the set?

B5 Online:Who wants to go first? ;>

B5 Peter:The time we were caught comparing the sizes of our six-shooters.

B5 Stephen:The time we were caught comparing the sizes of our six shooters.

B5 Online:LOL!

B5 Peter:Don't you want to know who's was bigger?...OR  who caught us?

B5 Online:Heres a question from SirPhilly....

Question:I heard that some of the sets on B5 are CG created, is it hard to
react and act to something you don't see?

B5 Peter:I've been working with Stephen for three seasons and only one of us is
real.

B5 Online:Here's one for Stephen from Libertm...

Question:Stephen, you look great! What's the secret? not spoo is it?

B5 Stephen:Nonfat Spoo! I also gave up sex.

B5 Peter:Thank god his wife didn't. I"m sorry, did I say that?

B5 Online:Uh... from ZaxxonTH... ;>

Question:For Stephen and Peter: How long does it take to do your Centauri hair?
Is there any other makeup to do your parts?

B5 Peter:The hair takes about half hour. IT's pre-coiffed.  As far as makeup
for the rest... I have teeth beyond that only my hairdresser knows for sure.

B5 Stephen:Mine only takes about 20 minutes.

B5 Peter:Has anyone noticed that Stephen's hair is getting bigger?  Or am I
just paranoid?

B5 Stephen:Centauri envy!

B5 Online:From Isilzha....  For Stephen....

Question:I have a question for Stephen Furst:  We've all heard about the antics
that go on on the set.  What was it like to have to put up with them from the
director's chair?  Or did they go easy on you??

B5 Stephen:I ruled the set like a young Mussolini. One antic from any actor and
they were barred from the bagel table.

B5 Peter:OH whip me, beat me, tell me you love me.

B5 Online:From ScottGW for Peter:

Question:Peter, how much of your new book DIPLOMATIC ACT will be about Bab5
(veiled of course)?

Question:Also, what role did you play on M*A*S*H?

B5 Peter:DIPLOMATIC ACT is split into two parts.  My section is about
television sets in general. And on MASH. I played criminal investigator.  There
was a theft.

B5 Stephen:I played Alan Alda.

B5 Peter:I thought you were RADAR O'reilly.

B5 Online:From Pitzerboy...

Question:Do either of you guys use computers alot? ie: surf the web/net, etc.?

B5 Peter:I just got a computer in the spring of last year and got online 6
months ago and I'm really enjoying it.

B5 Stephen:I'm still learning how to get rid of the flashing 12;00 on my VCR.

B5 Peter:HOT NUDE ALIEN PICTURES...<SEARCH>

B5 Online:Next month at Keyword: Babylon 5 and http://www.babylon5.com, be sure
and vote for your favorite episodes, villains, characters and more!  The
results of our "fan poll" will be used to produce a "Salute to the Fans"
calendar - keep watching for ore info!

B5 Online:No, you cant buy votes guys.

B5 Stephen:Where are the Rosie O'Donnell promos?

B5 Peter:OH, a calender.  Have you ever seen Stephen in a Speedo?

B5 Online:Coming soon Stephen. ;>

B5 Online:From CaptJoda...

Question:My question is for Stephen.  You always have the best lines in the
show.(No offence Peter) Are you that funny and great personally offstage?

B5 Stephen:No, I'm a borring slob.

B5 Peter:And a braggart too.

B5 Online:Not Rosie, Stephen, but here ya go...

B5 Online:Be sure and join Warner Bros. Online tomorrow night when we welcome
Jon Voight! Keyword: Cybertalk!

B5 Online:From BluSword...

Question:My question is for ...Peter...As an original cast member, How do you
feel particapating in a television series that is written well in advance
?.....And, Do you fell that your character has had ample time to develop ?

B5 Peter:No, still more time is necessary.  Baste lightly, cover will heavy
duty tinfoil and set aside for 10 minutes. The character being written in
advance has only been an advantage.

B5 Online:We have time for a couple more questions tonight before they kick us
out... Heres one from Bookherr....

OnlineHost: JMS is going to be at ICON in New York-any "good" embarrassing
question I could ask  him-think of it as your revenge if you want.

B5 Peter:He's already gotten revenge for Pasadena, so my mouth is shut.
Stephen?

B5 Stephen:I hear he wears a toupee.

B5 Peter:But not on his head.

B5 Online:From Tree002 for Stephen:

Question:for steven, does it bother you that you seen to always get the role of
the happy and just short of compitant character

B5 Stephen:It pays as much as the competent ones and no one expects me to know
my lines

B5 Online:Ill try and find one more question for each of you to conclude
tonight. :) From AKATREKKE...

Question:Stephen--It seems most people remember you for Animal House, but I
remember your character on St. Elsewhere quite fondly.  Has there ever been any
talk of a movie/revival of the show?

B5 Stephen:they are thinking of doing a tv-movie, but what the hell to I care.
I died in the last episode. We're all just a snow globe anyway.

B5 Online:Our last question for tonight comes from TheSquiers...

Question:Peter: During the filming of the strangulation scene between Londo and
G'Kar, JMS supposedly gave you some insight about the future of your
characters.  Care to share some with us?

B5 Online:If not, Ill have to find another question. :P

B5 Peter:I'd love to, but under penalty of death, I've been sworn to secrecy.
Unless you can get some cash to me immediately. Actually you're pretty much
caught up.  War Without End reveals almost all.

B5 Stephen:Does anybody have a good recipe for gingerbread?

B5 Peter:Baste lightly with an olive oil.  It really brings out the nutmeg
flavor.

B5 Online:Well, guys - thanks for being with us tonight.  Any closing comments
you would like to share with the rest of the online world?

B5 Peter:For B5 Fans, thanks for  your support it's so nice to know we're doing
the show for somebody. To the online world, sorry, I have nothing to say.

B5 Stephen:American Airlines, thank god you're not on strike.  Buy Pork
bellies.

B5 Online:Thanks again for being here tonight!  I would like to remind everyone
that the latest B5 information can be found at Keyword: Babylon5 on America
Online... and on the internet at http://www.babylon5.com and
http://www.thestation.com Thank you, and good night. "Be seeing you!"





Document ID: pj0217
