Here is the complete official transcript of the AOL conference with JMS
and Claudia Christian from Tuesday 3/14:

DCOMLeib: Welcome everyone. It was the dawn of the third age of
mankind.  We're here with Babylon 5 creator, J. Michael
Straczynski and Claudia Christian, Commander Susan Ivanova from
the show.

DCOMLeib: Welcome!

Jms at B5: Hi, all.

ClaudiaB5: Hi, everyone!  What's up?

Jms at B5: I should mention that Claudia braved terrible
freeways to be here....only a few wrecked cars on the side of
the road to show for it.

DCOMLeib: Let's get started with our first question from BabG

Question: I really enjoy watching Babylon 5. I think Ivanova's
character is great. How much of yourself goes into it?

ClaudiaB5: You're just jealous cuz you don't drive, Joey baby.

Jms at B5: Now with you on the roads.

Jms at B5: I mean NOT!

ClaudiaB5: How about a question?

Jms at B5: You just got one.

Jms at B5: Cast your eyes skyward a few lines.

ClaudiaB5: As much as they allow on an 8 o'clock show. ga

DCOMLeib: The next question for Claudia comes from Motie2...

Question: Claudia! Hello. When can we expect a sequel to
"Hexed"?

ClaudiaB5: May I remind you that I died.

DCOMLeib: Our next "question" comes from Unixfan

Question: Hi Jms.  I know we're not supposed to ask "What do you
want?"  How about "What do *I*want?"

Jms at B5: I as in me?  Or I as in you?

Jms at B5: If the answer is what do I personally want....the
only thing I really want is to tell stories.  It's all I've ever
really wanted.  Well, that and a nice cheese sandwich, a piece
fruit, and Carol Lynley.

Jms at B5: To just tell the stories that occupy my brain until
they're told out.  

DCOMLeib: 50 people at random attending tonight's event will
receive a special DC Comics Babylon 5 poster!

Jms at B5: Drive-by random posterings.

DCOMLeib: A question from MSteenber for Claudia...

Question: Claudia, do you feel you broke new ground with your
character, Ivanova, being the first female-in-high-command in
science fiction?  How do you feel about your newest "rival,"
Kate Mulgrew from Startrek: Voyager?

ClaudiaB5: Absolutely, to part one of your question...

ClaudiaB5: Part 2 -- they must have helium on the Voyager.

DCOMLeib: You're here with Claudia Christian, Commander Susan
Ivanova from the hit TV series Babylon 5...and J.Michael
Straczynski, the show's creator.

Jms at B5: Soon to be deceased.

Jms at B5: I kinda think Claudia fertilized new ground.

DCOMLeib: The next question comes from Landtrout...

Question: Claudia, why do you wear only one earring on the show.

ClaudiaB5: In memory of my brother, both real and in the series,
who died.

DCOMLeib: An often asked question from Asmat...

Question: Questions for JMS: Will Sinclair return in a starring
role?

Jms at B5: There are no plans at this time, though we will see
him again at some point.

DCOMLeib: A continuity question from Adewald...

Question: Hi. Love the show. It is very addictive.  Can you tell
us how
closely the comic is following the stroyline?  And the recent
novel as well?

Jms at B5: They tend to parallel the storyline in the series;
you can get more, but they're not required reading per se.  Some
minor elements will have to change, but overall, the events that
happen in them also happen in the series. BTW.

DCOMLeib: Our next question for Claudia comes from Gratfuldy..

Question: Claudia how do you like playing Ivanova?

ClaudiaB5: Beats working at Ralph's.  No, seriously, I love my
job and the character of Susan.

Jms at B5: I should mention that a writer can write all the
great lines he wants, but they're useless

DCOMLeib: The information we're all here for...a question asked
by KrisVC...

Question: Love the show.  What is in store for the rest of the
season?

Jms at B5: unless you have someone as talented as Claudia and
the others to bring them to life.

Jms at B5: What, you want me to tell you the end of the story? 
Is this some leftover trace....of the communist system in
operation?  Who sent you?  The Centauri?

DCOMLeib: LOL

Jms at B5: Lots of things blow up.  Then it gets quiet.  Then
somebody isn't who we thought that...person was.  Then more
stuff blows up.  Then something mind-bogglingly awful happens.

Jms at B5: And then we wait for next season.

ClaudiaB5: And those are just the commercials.

DCOMLeib: A behind the scenes question from Elissapax...

Question: jms and cc: what is the general mood of the show
taping?  Is there a lot of joking, etc. or does everyone pretty
much take things seriously?

ClaudiaB5: We have a ball making B5.  At least I do.

Jms at B5: Simple answer to the question: as you walk down the
halls of the B5 production office...the one sound you hear the
most is laughter.  And every day, everybody eats lunch together
behind the stage, writers, actors, producers, directors, crew,
everybody.  People have fun, have birthdays, hang out after
work...it's a great, fun environment....and a lot of practical
jokes.  

Jms at B5: And then there's Claudia.

ClaudiaB5: And those are just the commercials.

DCOMLeib: BFlipp has a question about the origin of B5...

Question: How did the concept of B5 come about?

Jms at B5: I grew up on the sagas, and always wondered why no
one's ever done for TV anything...on the scale of the Lensman
books or Lord of the Rings or Dune or Childhood's End... so I
figured I'd do it myself.  Took us from 1987 to 1991 to get it
going on film.

DCOMLeib: MSteenber has a question about the second season..

Question: Claudia, how is the cast reacting to the "new"
captain?  Is he up to par with the old commander?  How do you
think the show has evolved with his presence?  

ClaudiaB5: Bruce has brought a sense of professionalism and an
interesting levity to the show.  I thoroughly enjoy working with
him.

Jms at B5: Bringing in Sheridan has also allowed us to promote
Ivanova into more interesting jobs.

ClaudiaB5: I would have never broken my foot.

DCOMLeib: One question for Claudia from MRKremer...

Question: for Claudia - What's your typical workday like?

ClaudiaB5: I wake up, I go to work, I go home, I go to bed.

Jms at B5: We don't know what she does here either.

Jms at B5: But we love...well, whatever it is she's doing.

ClaudiaB5: Thanks for the support, Bard.

Jms at B5: Anytime, claudia baby...

DCOMLeib: One more for Claudia from Lexus21...

Question: Claudia, what do you see in Ivanova future?

ClaudiaB5: Lots of sex, drugs, and rock 'n roll and the
Captaincy.  VBG

Jms at B5: (stunned silence)

ClaudiaB5: You told me to express my humor, Joe.

Jms at B5: (Current needs: glass rum, gun, two bullets.)

ClaudiaB5: On my way.

Jms at B5: Those aren't bullets.

ClaudiaB5: This isn't the fifties, Joe.

Jms at B5: 38D?

DCOMLeib: DRays has a question about the mysterious Kosh...

Question: So, when do we get a peek at the REAL Ambassador Kosh,
or at least what's inside the suit?

Jms at B5: Laster this season.  We unveil him totally.

Jms at B5: Then you get a peek at the real Ivanova.

DCOMLeib: Penguin has a question about Ivanova's future...

Question: Claudia - Any good stories in the near future that
feature Ivanova?

Jms at B5: Prior to this conference, yes.

ClaudiaB5: Yes, the next episode we will be shooting.  It's
called "Divided Loyalties.

Jms at B5: We really haven't serviced Ivanova as well as we
should have in stories...

Jms at B5: one of my jobs for now and the next season is
changing that.

Jms at B5: Claudia is too good to waste, as stated, parking
cars.

ClaudiaB5: That and getting me a bigger trailer.

Jms at B5: On the other hand....

DCOMLeib: Jim in KC has a compliment for both of you...

Question: While not wanting to be gushy about it, I would like
to thank you both for what is in my opinion the best SF series
I've ever seen and is currently my only must see show.

ClaudiaB5: Thanks, you have excellent taste. VAG

Jms at B5: Thanks; it's the result of a lot of hard work by a
lot of
talented, dedicated people in our crew, cast, and production
office; I just get to bask in the reflected accomplishments

DCOMLeib: Another very interesting comment..this one from
Ce241...

Comment: to Claudia:  Your performance doing the "sex scene"
with the alien two weeks ago was a complete HOWL!!! I laughed so
hard I almost wet my pants.  Great acting!

Jms at B5: She was acting?

ClaudiaB5: I recommend Depends when around the Lumati.

DCOMLeib: One from BabG...

Question: Will Ivanova's character get a romantic interest this
season?

Jms at B5: In a manner of speaking.

ClaudiaB5: If Joe lets me break my curfew.

Jms at B5: Hell, you've broken everything else around here.

DCOMLeib: JMS..a question about Londo from GenaKHoo...

Question: JMS - Do you see Londo as a character who is
irredeemable?  Where do you see him going?

Jms at B5: Londo's arc is light and funny, to dark and funny, to
dark and tragic, to tragic and light, so there's a chance for
him toward the end.

DCOMLeib: A question for Claudia from OlexeyT95....

Question: If the show runs it's entire five years, will you stay
with it?

ClaudiaB5: If they'll have me.

Jms at B5: We're happy to have Claudia.

DCOMLeib: A question about Mimbari technology from FalcnFire..
Question: If the Mimbari surrendered to Earth, why do the
Mimbari still have technology that Earth can only admire? 
Didn't Earthforce capture any Mimbari craft in the war?

Jms at B5: Captured Minbari vessels?  No.  They usually got
fragged.  If you gave an aborigine an F14 fighter, he could
examine it, but making it work...that's a different issue.  Jms
at B5: they're quite a bit more advanced.

DCOMLeib: A question about the shadows from Boehmund...

Question: JMS:  We just watched "The Long Dark" again, and the
Shadow in there looks rather humanoid, while the ones we saw
talking to Morden looked insectoid.  Is there more than one
species?

Jms at B5: The shadows have their servants, which are being
recalled to their places of power.  That was one of  their
lower-level types.

DCOMLeib: Don't forget that DC Comics publishes Babylon 5
monthly..available at a comic store near you...

Jms at B5: And they say the artwork will improve (what I've seen
bears this out).

DCOMLeib: A question about action from Yorgos...

Question: CLAUDIA IS YOUR CHARACTER GOING TO BE MORE INVOLVED IN
THE ACTION SCENES MORE THIS SEASON.I THINK IT WOULD BE VERY COOL
IF YOU DID.

ClaudiaB5: I'd love to kick a little more butt.

Jms at B5: This is one of the things I have to correct, giving
her more in this respect.

DCOMLeib: The inevitable "cliffhanger" question from Adamsde...

Question: So, can we expect a big cliffhanger at the end of the
season?

Jms at B5: Not a cliffhanger per se; definitely we're going to
upend some more tables, but...not a cliffhanger in quite the
same was as "Chrysalis."  We plan to end big, though.

DCOMLeib: Another behind the scenes question....from Ce241

Question: Claudia:  Do you ever find yourself and the other cast
members getting the "giggles" when trying to be serious?

ClaudiaB5: Absolutely.  And then I go to work.  We have some
funny folks working on the show.

DCOMLeib: A comment from Intruder.....

Question: Babylon 5 is great show.... It's too under-rated

Jms at B5: I agree; it's slowly gaining ground, though, and
we're starting to get noticed by more people, and by critics,
who say, Y'know, it ain't bad!

DCOMLeib: Another question about Ivanova from Rick9719....
Question: For Claudia, What have been the biggest changes for
you from season 1 to season 2

ClaudiaB5: Letting down my hair.  Getting to express a sense of
humor...and finally meeting Joe.

Jms at B5: Get your hand off my knee.

ClaudiaB5: That's not my hand.

Jms at B5: (even more stunned silence)

DCOMLeib: Claudia, another question for you...from Clyde Dee...

Question: Claudia, do you ever see yourself in a role where you
may take over B5 or perhaps another outpost?  By the way, you
are one of the best actors on the show.

ClaudiaB5: Thank you, thank you.  And yes, I plan to be the
Captain of the sit-com version of B5.

Jms at B5:              <thud>

DCOMLeib: Okay..another question about the Acts of Sacrifice
episode from RonBS....

Question: In the episode "Acts of Sacrifice", how many times did
you have to do Ivanova's "sex" scene  with the visiting
ambassador until you got a take where no one cracked up
laughing?

ClaudiaB5: To the ambassador's disappointment - it was a one
shot deal.
Jms at B5: I was on set; she nailed it from the starting take.

ClaudiaB5: Nailed...nice choice of words, Joe.

Jms at B5: I are a riter...i LEarn it GooD

DCOMLeib: Next question comes from Nausea4....

Question: I know JMS is rather experienced with the internet.
How about yourself? Do you keep up with the newsgroup?

ClaudiaB5: I just learned to turn my powerbook off, thank you.

DCOMLeib: I should mention that in the dc comics movies and tv
section there is an autographed picture of Claudia available for
download..
Jms at B5: I may write a 4-issue arc this summer, btw.

DCOMLeib: A question about Ivanova's relationship with Psi
Corps....from Keith7012

Question: Ivanova is apparently a latent telepath.  One story
line left off with her making friends with the station's
resident telepath.  Will this story line be used to further the
Babylon 5 mission?

ClaudiaB5: They don't tell me anything around here.  I have to
wait until the scripts come out.

Jms at B5: Yes, there will be a development of the relationship
with Talia in the storyline.

Jms at B5: What most folks don't know, btw, is that Claudia (not
kiddng here) has a genius IQ, and reads a massive number of
books per week.

ClaudiaB5: Here's your fifty bucks, Joe.

Jms at B5: I live to serve.

DCOMLeib: Bohemund asks an interesting question..

Question: Let's say -- heaven forbid -- something happens that
prevents B5 from finishing out its 5-year run.  Will you finish
the arc in another medium, or just let us poor jamokes hang?

Jms at B5: This story will be told.  I can't even allow the any
other possibility to be considered., or it'd never get done.

ClaudiaB5: Or we'll do it as dinner theatre.

Jms at B5: (sigh...we have to work with her, you know.)

DCOMLeib: I should remind everyone to e-mail your addresses to
DCCONLINE for those posters!

DCOMLeib: One last question....from ZaZoou..

Question: JMS, I know you've been asked this a thousand times,
but what was your inspiration for B5?

Jms at B5: Wanting to do a show responsibly; wanting to tell a
story that would be equal to the...

Jms at B5: sagas that precede us...wanting to see the show as a
fan
myself...wanting to work with...Claudia Christian...being vastly
disappointed... and wanting to leave something of value behind. 
I think this has the chance to be it. And with (all seriousness)
a cast as talented and bright and hardworking as this one, as
embodied by the quick-witted Claudia, who is honestly a joy to
work with.  I think we have the chance to accomplish that.

Jms at B5: (You may now put your hand back on my knee.  Or
whatever that was.)

ClaudiaB5: Here, here. Long live Babylon 5!

ClaudiaB5: Both?

DCOMLeib: Well that brings another DC Comics Online auditorium
session to a close....

DCOMLeib: I'd like to thank Claudia and JMS for taking time out
to answer all your questions here

DCOMLeib: and i'd like to also thank you the audience for all
your participation.

Jms at B5: De nada

ClaudiaB5: Thank you for the opportunity.

DCOMLeib: A transcript will be available in the DC Comics
transcripts area shortly...

Jms at B5: Whether you want it or not.

ClaudiaB5: I'm staying

Jms at B5: Oh?  

ClaudiaB5: They're blowing up the parking lot.

Jms at B5: What WAS that?

ClaudiaB5: Didn't you hear the big BOOM.  Always a Boom.

Jms at B5: Sooner or later.  Boom.

DCOMLeib: Well that's it everyone....thanks and good night.

DCOMLeib: Copyright (c) 1995 DC Comics

