EXTRA Online's live Interview was with J. Michael Straczynski, Executive
Producer and Creator of "Babylon 5," and actress Claudia Christian, who
plays Lt. Commander Susan Ivanova on the show.

The transcript was edited for ease of reading and to correct typographical
errors and was prepared in standard ASCII by emcee Rusti I:

OnlineHost:  Copyright 1995 America Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

OnlineHost:  Center Stage is the largest gathering place on the service,
bringing celebrity guests right into your home, and offering a host of
entertainment events led by a team of talented emcees. It's capable of
accommodating thousands of guests and is truly the showplace of the
America Online service.

OnlineHost:  Experiment with the menu. You'll find many powerful options,
including one which permits you to interact with other members present in
the auditorium. The interaction "rows" text is prefaced by a number shown
in parentheses (1), etc., which is followed by the text sent by members in
that row. Unless a row is being "broadcast" your hosts cannot see
interactive text. Try it. You can't break anything!

OnlineHost:  To interact with your hosts or their guests, use the Interact
Button and select either "Ask a Question" or "Send a Comment" -- please be
aware that your hosts may not be able to address all items sent to the
stage due to time constraints.  Questions or comments sent that are not
relevant to the conference in progress will not be addressed in order to
save you time and charges.

OnlineHost:  Your host tonight is CSEmcee5 (JackDL).

OnlineHost:   Welcome to EXTRA Online's *LIVE* Interview with J. Michael
Straczynski, Executive Producer and Creator of "Babylon 5," and actress
Claudia Christian, who plays Lt. Commander Susan Ivanova on the show.

OnlineHost:  J. Michael Straczynski is the Executive Producer and Creator
of "Babylon 5," and has a long relationship with science-fiction and
related genres.

OnlineHost:  Claudia Christian stars as Lt. Commander Susan Ivanova in
"Babylon 5."  Her other credits include starring roles in Danielle
Steele's "Kaleidoscope," "Columbo," "A Masterpiece of Murder," and her
film credits include "The Chase," "Hexed," "Clean & Sober," "The Hidden"
and "Never On Tuesday."

OnlineHost:  After the interview, be sure to check out EXTRA Online's
"Special Presentation" area.  The cast of "Babylon 5" has recorded a
number of audio and video files exclusively for our online audience. These
files, along with photos from the current and first seasons, have never
been released on America Online before and provide a wealth of
downloadable resources for "Babylon 5" fans. Keyword: EXTRA, look in
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS area.

OnlineHost:  The live online interview, along with unique souvenir files,
will be featured on the "EXTRA" TV show later this week.  Also, look in
EXTRA Online for a transcript of the interview along with the EXCLUSIVE
"Babylon 5" Online souvenir files. Keyword: EXTRA, look in "Special
Presentations."

CSEmcee5:  Welcome to The Globe Mr. Straczynski and Ms. Christian.

Jms at B5:  Glad to be here.

ClaudiaB5:  Thank you, it's good to be here.

CSEmcee5:  Here is the first question for you:

Question:  When was Babylon 5 created?

Jms at B5:  I created the show in 1986/87, and wrote the initial
screenplay for the pilot movie in 1987, commissioned artwork, and began
taking the project around to studios and networks, with my associates Doug
and John. It took us 5 years to find someone who believed in the project
the way we do. And here we are.

Question:  This is a question for JMS, rumors are flying about what
happened at the Big Bang. Could you clear up what happened?

Jms at B5:  We had provided material for the organizers of the con on the
strict notion that they were to be used only to make a demo for later
merchandising. We then found that they were taking these items, mass
producing and selling them without our knowledge, permission, or license.
At that juncture, in addition to some previous problems we'd had, B5 had
to withdraw official sanctioning of the con, although we are allowing
those cast members concerned about fans with non-refundable airline
tickets and non-refunding con tickets, to go for their benefit.

Question:  Whom did you use from your past to help create your character,
Ms. Christian?

ClaudiaB5:  Absolutely nothing. Ivanova's mold was broken after creation.

Jms at B5:  And we're all thankful.

Question:  For JMS: Any word on the renewal for season 3?

Jms at B5:  We should know by the end of the month.

Question:  There has been some speculation about Ivanova pursuing an
intimate relationship with Talia.  Will this come about?

Jms at B5:  I think it would be fair to say that she does have an intimate
relationship somewhere down the road.

ClaudiaB5:  Been there. Done it. Worn the T-shirt

Question:  JMS, will you choose "Acts of Sacrifice" for Andreas'
nomination. He was excellent in that episode.

Jms at B5:  I think we chose "Coming of Shadows" for that, actually. We've
nominated many in our cast for emmies.

Question:  Is it true that you have the future of B5 worked out?

ClaudiaB5:  Yes, actually I do.

Jms at B5:  To the last degree, virtually every episode for the full five
year run that I want this show to last for. It's a novel for TV, and you
generally have to outline to know where you're going.

Question:  For Claudia, any upcoming movie projects during the break
between seasons?

ClaudiaB5:  Too many to talk about.

Question:  How well is the B5 comic doing?

ClaudiaB5:  I don't think they draw me well at all.

Jms at B5:  As far as I know, it's selling very well, and has just gone to
better stock paper. I'm happy with the stories, and there's some surprises
going, in that we're hooking in some of the series stuff, introducing a
new character in the comic who will likely show up in the series (I'll be
doing another 4-issue arc, by the way).

ClaudiaB5:  And that's just the commercials.

Jms at B5:  Being on-line with Claudia is like being trapped in a tin
drum.

ClaudiaB5:  Rim shot. Rim shot.

Jms at B5:  Claudia is having too much fun.

Question:   Claudia: How close is your real-life personality to your
tough, take-charge character?

ClaudiaB5:  Very close, in fact this morning I kicked my dog, ate
breakfast and went go-cart racing.

Question:  Will there be any big changes in the cast for the next season?

Jms at B5:  Ah! A question I can't answer. Expect some surprises.

Question:  My favorite characters in the series are Cmdr. Sinclair &
Morden. Will there be more episodes featuring them?

Jms at B5:  You will definitely see more of Morden, and we have some
interesting plans for Sinclair.

Question:  Claudia, how much input do you have in your character
development?

ClaudiaB5:  Absolutely none. Joe rules!

Question:  To Claudia: Hi, I was wondering if you were from Russia just
like the character you play.

ClaudiaB5:  Born in Glendale. Raised in Connecticut.

Question:  What's it like working with Harlan Ellison?

Jms at B5:  Harlan describes his role as mad dog nipping at my heels. I
think of him as my personal Jiminy Cricket, steering me away from trouble.
Overall, he's a free-floating agent of chaos, who gets into anything he
wants to. He's a joy to work with.

Question:  JMS: If the B5 story is like an iceberg, i.e. we only see 10%
of it, how much will we see at the end of this season and how much at the
end of the story?

Jms at B5:  I can't even countenance that though. The only way this show
has gotten made has been via an act of sheer will. I refuse to allow the
chance of it ending. As for this season (I misread your question) (stupid
producer boy) you'll have all of the questions asked at the start of the
season, answered. Almost. Each year is nominally self-contained.

Question:  What happened to the 4  previous B5s?

Jms at B5:  1 - Sabotaged. 2 - Sabotaged. 3 - Blowed up. 4 - Vanished
mysteriously.

Question:  Are models used for the ships and station or are they all
computer generated?

Jms at B5:  All Computer Generated Images (CGI); including Claudia.

ClaudiaB5:  There are no models, ever.

Jms at B5:  But Claudia could BE a model.

ClaudiaB5:  Sorry. I are an actor.

Question:  When will tape of the first season be available, and will there
be more than one episode on a tape?

Jms at B5:  I've been TOLD they're going to be out over the summer, but
have no objective way of verifying that.

Question:  JMS, do you plan on exploring Ivanova's relationship with her
mother (i.e. latent telepathy) in future episodes?

Jms at B5:  Not as much this year as last; more of an important reference,
however.

ClaudiaB5:  Been there. Done that. Worn the T-shirt.

Jms at B5:  Claudia, leave your T-shirt alone.

Question:  Ms. Christian, do you feel that Cmdr. Ivanova could be
considered a role model for females, especially those interested in the
military?

Jms at B5:  (Can't WAIT for this answer.)

ClaudiaB5:  Absolutely! I feel honored that a new generation of young
girls no longer feel the need to be secretaries. Ivanova is God.

Question:  What can you tell us about next weeks show "And Now For A
Word"?

Jms at B5:  It's a break in our usual format. Something we haven't done
before, and which hasn't been done in SF tv before, to my knowledge. But
to tell it up front would ruin the surprise for those who don't want it
spoiled.

ClaudiaB5:  It's a great episode.

Question:  I have watched Claudia for a long time. When she was in the
Hidden I have that on video tape. I think she is a wonderful actress. How
did she get started in show business?

Jms at B5:  Working in the original CB DeMille silent movies.

ClaudiaB5:  With absolutely no help and a lot of gumption.

Jms at B5:  Gumption is what you find on your shoes, by the way.

ClaudiaB5:  With Joe as my personal assistant.

Jms at B5:  Call me Igor.

ClaudiaB5:  Actually he was my makeup artist but he's a little shy.

Question:  JMS: You said (on the net) that tomorrow night's episode would
have something special for videotapers. My fiancee broke the VCR. Any
chance you could tell us when in the episode we should squint real hard?

Jms at B5:  Do you know how much makeup covering that scar requires?  To
the question; look for the end of the long reference to the Psi Corps. As
they smile, you'll see it.

Question:  With the warrior caste dominant in the Council, does this mean
the Earth -Minbari was is in danger of starting up again?

Jms at B5:  Who can say?

Question:  One thing that I enjoy about the B5 is the complex plot and
character development but this also makes it more difficult to interest
friends in the show (so much back history). Any way to help bring new
comers up to speed?

ClaudiaB5:  You should point out that the episode is next week not this
week.

Jms at B5:  Actually, the episode next week, And Now For a Word, is
DESIGNED in part to help new viewers come to the show. Interestingly
enough, though, I've received many letters from overseas, where they show
the series out of order totally, and the folks seem to have no problem
getting into it. All the episodes are self-contained.

ClaudiaB5:  Send me $9.99 for a complete unauthorized compilation of the
series.

Jms at B5:  Or send it to her next of kin.

Question:  How many Video Toasters do you have rendering the effects for
the show?

Jms at B5:  15,423. It's a BIG room. Actually, I think it's 10. But 15,423
sounded better.

ClaudiaB5:  Actually there are 35 toasters

Question:  When will we find out more about Kosh?

Jms at B5:  This season. By season's end, you'll know a LOT. You may even
SEE Kosh. And Kosh may SEE.

Claudia.  Eeek! Promises, promises, Joey baby.

Question:  It seems that the sets have been getting larger and more
elaborate. Who is mostly responsible for the look of the show and how has
it changed since the pilot?

Jms at B5:  John Iacovelli, our art director, John Copeland, who works
with him, John Flinn, our DP, all the little Johns and the construction
crew. We have 18 standing sets and the capacity for 70 swing sets.

Question:  Do you or will you ever entertain scripts from freelance
writers?

Jms at B5:  I don't entertain anyone.

ClaudiaB5:  I only entertain writers.

Jms at B5:  Then why are you in the other office?

Question:  Are there any planes for a motion picture?

Jms at B5:  Nope. Don't want no franchise. Don't want no movie. Just do
TV.

ClaudiaB5:  But I'm available.

Jms at B5:  Tell your story and get off the stage. 5 years with Claudia is
enough for anyone, Lord knows.

Question:  For JMS: What is your favorite episode of Babylon 5
Jms at B5:  So far, of what's aired, "The Coming of Shadows," but overall
so far, the episode later this season, "The Long, Twilight Struggle" tied
with "Comes the Inquisitor."

Question:  For Claudia: How does B5 compare to your other works?

ClaudiaB5:  I didn't have to put up with Joe Straczynski on the other
shows.

Jms at B5:  Also, here we allow her to speak. Barely.

ClaudiaB5:  Thank God for talkies.

Question:  Any words on a Babylon 5 CD-ROM?

Jms at B5:  Late fall, I hear.  I also hear voices in the night telling me
I'm Joan of Arc. One of them is right.

Question:  Two questions:  How can I write to the producers of the show,
and is there an official fan club? I'm not the type that normally goes for
this sort of thing, but this show is really worth it!

Jms at B5:  You can write to me via AOL, and we hope to have an official
fan club up soonish.

ClaudiaB5:  How come everybody always claims not to be the type?

Question:  Ivanova's a strong female character, yet men seem to love her
rather than feel threatened. Why do you think this is?

ClaudiaB5:  Because I'm so irresistible and humble.

Jms at B5:  (thud)!

Question:  Has your budget for special effects increased over time?

Jms at B5:  Very slightly. We generally do fine with what we have.

Question:  Have any of the plots used in scripts for "the other Space
Station series" caused you to alter the story arc?

Jms at B5:  I think I dropped one or two notions because they'd walked
into that arena on other shows, like DS9, but they never got very far, and
our way of handling them would be very different in any event. It's
inevitable. But less so the deeper we get into the story.

Question:  Claudia: How does it feel knowing that JMS knows what's going
to happen to your character down the line, and he won't tell? Do you try
to get a hint out of him?

ClaudiaB5:  I've invested a lot of money trying to pry the info from him
and then I tried sex. Nothing worked.

Jms at B5:  I have SEVERAL hints for Claudia. But she keeps insisting on
continuing to act. Hey! What's this "nothing worked" bit?

ClaudiaB5:  Like what?

Jms at B5:  What?

ClaudiaB5:  Act like what?

Jms at B5:  A BETTER PERSON, ALL RIGHT?

ClaudiaB5:  I love you Joe.

Jms at B5:  Lord, people, you have no idea. She's a cutie, but we're both
going to hell for this. Has ANYONE out there got a question to save us
from ourselves?

Question:  Can you tell us about Garibaldi (can't remember the actor's
name) and his resume when he auditioned? I hear it is a funny story.

Jms at B5:  His resume had some creative writing. He listed among his
bogus credits: "Member, Dance Theater of Harlem." I said "Okay, dance."
Total fiction.

Question:  Will any computer game companies be picking up the rights to B5
for a new game? If you know of any>?

Jms at B5:  Not yet. Someone might be picking up Claudia.

Question:  It seems like Ambassador Delen has taken a minor role lately.
Will that change in the future?

Jms at B5:  Definitely. We have major plans for Delenn.

Question:  This may be a silly question, but it is one that I have asked
when watching almost every episode. Do Membari wear some type of
headdress, or are those things on their heads actually part of their
heads?

Jms at B5:  It's bone that grows around from the back, like antlers.

ClaudiaB5:  I certainly hope so.

Question:  What are the titles of the remaining episodes in the season?

Jms at B5:  There All the Honor Lies, And Now for a Word, Knives, In the
Shadow of Z'ha'dum, Confessions and Lamentations, The Long Twilight
Struggle, Divided Loyalties, Comes the Inquisitor, and The Fall of Night.

Question:  JMS, how much do the other people working on the show know
about the story arc?

Jms at B5:  As little as possible. I could tell them, but then I'd have to
kill them.

ClaudiaB5:  Diddly squat.

Jms at B5:  Which is a new exercising regimen.

Question:  For JMS, when will we find out how someone managed to poison
Kosh through his suit?

Jms at B5:  In the pilot, we saw him extend a part of himself. So that's
obviously how. Question remains, WHY expose himself like this if he's
worried about being seen? This will be implied in this season.

Question:  In ST:NG, DS9, and recently in ST:V, the recurring plot of a
malfunctioning holodeck seems to dominate the episodes. Do you predict any
recurring plots that might happen in B5?

Jms at B5:  No. The B5 tech works right out of the box.

ClaudiaB5:  Yes, the ongoing war between Claudia and Joe.

Jms at B5:  War of the Roses? War of 1812? 

ClaudiaB5:  The battle between the north and south.

Jms at B5:  North and the Mouth?

Question:  After the five year "arc" is done will the show be canceled?

Jms at B5:  Unless there's a planned side-story, yes, that's the intent.

ClaudiaB5:  I'll be continuing dinner theater.

Question:  Are we going to be seeing more of or hearing from the telepath
Gray?

Jms at B5:   Not this season.

Question:  Will we be seeing a connection between Susan and the Raiders?

ClaudiaB5:  Soupy Sales is playing Sheridan in Spring Valley.

Jms at B5:  Nope. Will you take Foreign Breeds of Frogs for fifty dollars?

Question:  Will B4 come back or will it stay vanished?

Jms at B5:  Yes.

ClaudiaB5:  I'll be back and I'll take obscure writers for a hundred.

Jms at B5:  You win.

Question:  JMS, B5's storyline is very complex, plots within plots within
plots. How do you and the writers keep it flowing as well as you do?

Jms at B5:  Again, by virtue that I outlined all this 7 years ago. It's
all in 200 pages of notes. Along with Ivanova's impending death scene (if
this conference keeps going the way it is)

ClaudiaB5:  Does that mean I don't get the raise?

Jms at B5:  What raise?

Question:  JMS, How much do you feel that the Internet has helped to
bolster the show's ratings?

Jms at B5:  Actually, I don't think it has, in that the numbers aren't
there, but it helps to give me. a sense of the room, and I think it's
important, in producing a
show, to remain both open and accountable to the fans of the SF genre, who
are generally the most exploited genre fans around. Good or bad, I'm here
for the duration.

ClaudiaB5:  (thud).

Question:  Exactly how long does it take to film an episode, as well as
apply the make and costumes to the aliens?

Jms at B5:  7 days to film. 52 days to finish everything. 42 days for
Claudia to learn her lines.

Question:  JMS, the show is very allegorical and an epic of biblical
proportions. Are the Vorlons an allusion to angels and the Shadows an
allusion to demons?

ClaudiaB5:  I just like seeing Joe face to face.

Jms at B5:  Not really, no. It goes a lot deeper than that. The show
operates on many levels; you can't stop at that level.

ClaudiaB5:  Ivanova is God.

Jms at B5:  By the way, before we stop in a bit, I just want to make
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR that I have nothing but respect and awe and affection for
Claudia, and we get on here to play, and she's fun, and she plays back.
Also she's on my lap.

ClaudiaB5:  Move your hand Joe.

Jms at B5:  That's not my hand.

ClaudiaB5:  In that case does that come in adult size?

Jms at B5:  Not in years.

OnlineHost:  All good things must come to an end.  Our time is up for this
event.

OnlineHost:  The live online interview, along with unique souvenir files,
will be featured on the "EXTRA" TV show later this week.  Also, look in
EXTRA Online for a transcript of the interview along with the EXCLUSIVE
"Babylon 5" Online souvenir files. Keyword: EXTRA, look in "Special
Presentations."

CSEmcee5:  Thank you both for joining us tonight! I hope you had as good a
time as we all did.

Jms at B5:  It was great.

ClaudiaB5:  Thanks, I've had a blast. Got to run before Joe kills me.

CSEmcee5:  Good night everyone. Thanks for joining us tonight.

Jms at B5:  And thanks for all the support.

OnlineHost:  Thank you for joining EXTRA Online for this Special
Presentation Interview with J. Michael Straczynski and Claudia Christian
of "Babylon 5." Be sure to check out the special area on EXTRA Online for
the "Tribute to Babylon 5" area, which holds a wealth of downloadable
resources for "Babylon 5" fans, including EXCLUSIVE and CUSTOM MADE video
and audio files, plus photos of the current and first seasons. 

OnlineHost:  Also, be sure to join us next week when we present "Spotlight
on The American Gladiators," which will include a special area for
downloading Video and Photos of the men and women Gladiators, plus
information on how to get tickets to a taping of the show!

OnlineHost:  If you're not already on our mailing list, take the time to
add yourself so we can keep you posted of these and other upcoming Special
Events!

OnlineHost:  Thank you once again. This has been an EXTRA Online Special
Presentation.

OnlineHost:  Copyright 1995 America Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved.


Transmitted: 95-06-08 17:02:08 EDT

