On Tuesday, October 25th, Babylon 5 Online hosted a *LIVE* Interview with the
creator and cast of "Babylon 5."  The transcript of that event appears below,
and has been edited.

____________________________________
OnlineHost :  Copyright 1995 America Online, Inc.   All Rights Reserved.

OnlineHost : Welcome to the Globe Auditorium.  In a few minutes, you will be
able to board BABYLON 5, the coolest space station on America Online!  Our
guests this evening are Bruce Boxleitner (Cpt. John Sheridan) and J. Michael
Straczynski, the show's creator.

This event will begin at the top of the hour.

OnlineHost : Have you every discussed future nation relations with a Minbari?
 Do you know better than to not play with Shadows?  If not, then come aboard
BABYLON 5 Online, AOL's hottest new space station.

OnlineHost : To inaugurate the opening of the new space station, Babylon 5
Online (keyword - BABYLON) welcomes you all to participate in our special
live online conference event featuring Bruce Boxleitner, who plays Captain
John  Sheridan, and J. Michael Straczynski, the show's creator.

OnlineHost : Before becoming one of television's most popular captain, Bruce
Boxleitner made an impression on audiences with his roles in the television
hit "Scarecrow and Mrs. King" and the telefilms "Wyatt Earp: Return to
Tombstone," "Gunsmoke V: One Man's Justice," "House of Secrets," "The
Secret," "The Town Bully," "East of Eden" and "Double Jeopardy."

OnlineHost : Babylon 5 show creator John Michael Straczynski is no stranger
to the sci fi genre. He served as writer on "The Twilight Zone" and has
earned several prestigious nominations for his work on "The Strange Case of
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde." He was also a producer on the hit show "Murder, She
Wrote." 

B5 Online  : Welcome Bruce and Joe

Jms at B5  : It's Actor-Boy & Writer-Boy, the All Sidekick Revenge Squad!!

B5 Online  : We'll take the first question.

BB at B5   : You've been eating too much chocolate again, Joe.

Question   : Does B5 have an artificial gravity field or does the spinning of
the station create the gravity on it?

Jms at B5  : WHAT?  WHAT?  HYPER?  WHO?

Jms at B5  : The rotating section provides all B5's gravity. The cargo area
atop the station is zero-g, as is the central docking core.

B5 Online  : From Cat Clock

Question   : Is it a conspiracy or coincidence that most of the actors on B5
were in "Tron"?

Jms at B5  : I certainly hope it's a conspiracy; will make coming to work
more interesting.

BB at B5   : There are only two of us, myself and Peter Jurasik

Jms at B5  : And Peter's 6-foot rabbit friend Mr. Mord... er, Harvey.

B5 Online  : From IrnMike4u

Question   : Where will the series lead us in the next year. Will we discover
the reasons for the murder of the president? Will we discover the predictions
of the former commander will come true?

Jms at B5  : Yes on the first; you must realize that the show  proceeds in a
logical order, if we set something up in the beginning, we kinda  have to pay
it off...so here we have our people investigating this assassination, sooner
or later this is going to have to come out, and they'll have to deal with the
repercussions...all proceeding logically.  This coming season is when all the
triggers get  pulled, and all the  birds come home to roost.      

B5 Online  : From Cat Clock

Question   : Is it true the idea for the Draasi conflict stemmed from a
writer listening to two kids arguing for their favorite type of Hi-C?

Jms at B5  : (I thought we didn't allow drinking during these conferences)
No.

B5 Online  : From MYSTRESS

Jms at B5  : love the name

Question   : Will we find out how Zathris got to the planet??

Jms at B5  : Absolutely.  Actually, he's been there the whole time. He leaves
later, which is earlier for us, since we saw him before the after where he
left. (suddenly seasick)

BB at B5   : I tell you its the chocolate

B5 Online  : From AFA Dave

Question   : I saw the new B5 area, very nice graphics!  I hope you upload
several of the special effects shots in Quicktime format.  What will become
of the telepath's character now that she has gone back to PsiCorp?  Is she
off the show?

Jms at B5  : Very nearly certainly...unless I change my mind....

B5 Online  : From Asmat

Question   : A question for JMS, any truth to the rumor that Neil Gaiman will
script some episodes?

Jms at B5  : I'd love to have Neil do some work; he keeps dodging  it, off
doing his OWN work,  how selfish.   

B5 Online  : From Kasper549 To Bruce:

Question   : I have heard that the B5 story is already mapped out. How long
will it take to run and is there any guarantee that the show will be on for
as long as it takes? 

BB at B5   : First of all in television there are no guarantees... I think
there's a very good chance that we'll be around for the end of this saga.
 How's that great maker?

Jms at B5  : There are no guarantees this side of the grave.  Except that I
will continue to lose hair.

B5 Online  : From Chirurgeo

Question   : Bruce, I have enjoyed all of your roles since How the West was
Won.  What was it like entering B5 in the middle so to speak?

BB at B5   : Quite exciting, a bit daunting, and now I feel totally at home. 

Jms at B5  : Just that damned horse parked out back.

OnlineHost : If you have an opinion to share on the upcoming war, the
Minbari, Captain Sheridan or find out how Babylon 5 fans meet in real-life,
try the BABCOM Communications Center message boards at keyword BABYLON 5. 

B5 Online  : From Vnette

Question   : I suspect that replacing Sinclair was not in your original plan,
how does the replacement  change your overall 5 year storyline? 

Jms at B5  : Only in that it widens the scope of the story, and allows me to
do more stuff than I  had first thought possible; it's helped accelerate the
storyline.  It's been a help.

OnlineHost : To get to Babylon 5 Online, try keyword BABYLON 5.  There are
plenty of pictures,  video clips and soundbites to download!

B5 Online  : From Amb Delen for Bruce

Question   : What can you tell us about the relationship developing between
Delenn and Sheridan.

Jms at B5  : It's very cool.

BB at B5   : Just what I read in the scripts...

Jms at B5  : And it will also continue to grow closer as things  get...more
difficult around them.

B5 Online  : From J9P

BB at B5   : Joe keeps a lot of the storyline close to his vest. 

Question   : Bruce, all the best to you and Melissa on the arrival of your
new son. What's your favorite role you've ever played?

Jms at B5  : Oops. sorry, Bruce, didn't see that was directed to you.

BB at B5   : Thank you from both Melissa and I.  My favorite role....Capt.
John Sheridan of course.

Jms at B5  : (Memo to self: pay Bruce this week.  Good answer.)

B5 Online  : From DoDaDh
Question   : Are we ever going to see Kosh?

Jms at B5  : Of course...and you'll see Kosh by this season's end (in 2
weeks)

OnlineHost : After this event, hang out at the Eclipse Cafe. Meet other
Babylon 5 fans and talk about the upcoming war.  The intergalactic fun is at
keyword BABYLON 5 under the "Chat Area" icon.

B5 Online  : From MYSTRESS

Question   : Just what kind of "relationship" Talia and Ivanova have?? More
than just friends??

BB at B5   : Closer than friends.

Jms at B5  : They're very close, yes.

B5 Online  : From Songokute

Question   : JMS:  Are we going to find out the Vorlon's real intentions
soon?

Jms at B5  : Yes, but not soonish...it has to come out gradually, by contrast
with another side.

B5 Online  : From WCC Lev

Question   : Bruce, how much do you find yourself getting into the  story and
wanting to know more of the arc?  Jerry Doyle seemed to look at the show as
more of a job when he was here.  Are you getting addicted, or keeping your
distance? 

BB at B5   : Completely addicted.  I've now read the next three  episodes
beyond what we are shooting now  and can't wait to read more.  Write faster,
Joe.  

Jms at B5  : dancing as fast as I can, Bruce

B5 Online  : From Quel Drom

Question   : My question is for Mr. Straczynski. I heard a rumor  that Robert
Culp will be appearing on the show. Will he and what will he be.

Jms at B5  : It's our hope to eventually do a follow-up to the Outer Limits
episode Harlan wrote,  DEMON WITH A GLASS HAND, with Culp reprising his role;
in the fullness of time.

B5 Online  : From Winter999

Question   : What's the word on video releases in the US?

Jms at B5  : WB doesn't seem to think anybody'd be interested in buying the
show on tape,  even though in the UK it's #6 on the sell-through charts
(after Schindler's List), we're hoping the fans can...educate them.

B5 Online  : From Futrworke

Question   : In the comic book there was a scene from the past where Talia
was being experimented on by Psi-corps.  Is this when she had the other
personality implanted?  Are you going to bring in another telelpath?

Jms at B5  : Yes, that was when Talia and others had certain modifications
made...and Lyta will be seen more next season, on many occasions, but a
 regular PsiCorps teep...no.

B5 Online  : From GinHart

Question   : Will the Shadows get what's coming to them soon?

Jms at B5  : Depends on what you think is coming to them.

BB at B5   : Don't be so impatient.  It's just starting to get interesting in
our galaxy.

Jms at B5  : Suffice there are interesting things in store for them...and
from them to us.

B5 Online  : From WCC Lev

Question   : Bruce, how does it feel to see the show after the post
production work is done?  None of the previous work I've seen you in has
special effects.  Does it change your performance, or can you "see" what's
supposed to happen?

BB at B5   : Each time it's a terrific surprise to see the finished show,
 it's hard to imagine so of Ron Thornton's creations when all you see on set
is a big blue screen.

Jms at B5  : Actually Bruce IS a special effect; in reality he's  only 4'3"
with one leg. Whose leg, we don't know

B5 Online  : From RDunn2344

Question   : Bruce,what is your favorite episode of b5 sofar 

BB at B5   : The Coming of Shadows and Shadow of Za'ha'dum are my  favorites
so far...and the ep you will see in two weeks, the finale to season two.
 WOW!!

Question   : I recently saw a newsletter saying that many of the cast from B5
will be appearing at the ConRad in Universal City this coming weekend.  How
accurate is this? and will the both of you be there? if so, when?

Jms at B5  : I won't be there, no, nor will Harlan; there are apparently some
misconceptions on this.

BB at B5   : I will be co-hosting the SciFi Universe Magazine Awards this
weekend at Universal City,  some of the other cast and production folks will
be there at the Awards, but not the con.

Jms at B5  : He'll be doing it with Nana Visitor.  Er, hosting.   (Hi,
Melissa.)

B5 Online  : From MAKagle

Question   : Sorry, will we se SINCLAIR again as a recurring character?

Jms at B5  : There are no immediate plans for that, no, though  he'll be
appearing in a 2-parter this  coming 3rd season, as Ranger One coming to B5.

B5 Online  : From SueKamaka

Question   :  Will be seeing an more of Na'Toth this season?

Jms at B5  : Na'Toth's last words: "Look, that looks like a big  ol' meteor
coming this way."  BTW, as Bruce just reminded me, Majel Barrett Roddenberry
is doing a guest... appearance on B5 this coming season, to support B5 and
end this silly feud.

B5 Online  : From CASADELAR

Question   : What is Sheridan's deepest thoughts concerning Ivana?

Jms at B5  : Nice shoes

BB at B5   : She's probably his closest friend on B5....

Jms at B5  : Good friend, confidante, fellow warrior, trusted ally.  And nice
shoes

BB at B5   : And he wouldn't want to make her mad.  

Jms at B5  : great hair (of course I notice that)

B5 Online  : From BilboShir

Question   : What is the third age of Mankind... and the first  two?

Jms at B5  : If I told you the first 2, you'd know the third; the third's a
surprise.  BTW, Brad Dourif also does a guest shot in the coming season

B5 Online  : From Siebers

Question   : How do you keep such a large cast together when  individual
actors go episodes without a scene? 

Jms at B5  : Crazy glue and branding irons.  Actually, it's very hard,
because they're all very talented and you can't have every single actor in
every single episode, so you alternate, and give more time to some in one
script, then others in another script, and hope that in the final analysis,
it all works out.  Paying them would also help, but we're still working that
out.

BB at B5   : I'm bringing the horse into your office now.

Jms at B5  : Fine, you clean the carpet this time.

B5 Online  : From Pnmnm5

Question   : JMS,  when you first wrote the 5 year story arc, who  did you
have in mind to be the traitor?  I'm betting it was not the commercial
telepath character.

Jms at B5  : Actually, it would've been Laurel Takashima, who would've been
the one who also shot Garibaldi.

B5 Online  : From RTomasz18

Question   : whats coming up in the new season

Jms at B5  : Theo and his 12 brothers come to B5...lots of stuff on the
station blows up, Sheridan gets command of a Minbari/Vorlon crossbreed
ship..Bester returns...Sheridan goes right up against a Shadow....old ones
 get heard and seen...and Ivanova has the best line of the series to date in
Sheridan's bedroom.

B5 Online  : From Mic12345

Question   : Will Sheriden fall in love

BB at B5   : Yes.

Jms at B5  : May have already happened, or be happening already

B5 Online  : From Db3l

Question   : To JMS: Do you have any plans on publishing the Babylon 5 story
as a novel following the run of the series?  And if so, would it be written
 specifically to be a novel, or strictly as an adaptation of the serialized
version?

Jms at B5  : "Listen, Mohammed, baby, now that you've just moved this
mountain, could you move the rest of that mountain range over there?"  One
crisis at a time...just getting through this show now takes all my effort,
can't imagine past that now.

B5 Online  : From Songokute

Question   : BB, What episode was the funniest to act in, or which had the
most practical jokes?

BB at B5   : Crisis...you must be talking about the horse, right?

Jms at B5  : OH!  *That's* the horse...I thought that was Doug (my 
             partner).  That explains saddle.

BB at B5   : Every episode with Ivanova and Sheridan in the Observation Dome,
winds up being pretty  funny to get through.  We've had some great gags
there.  But there is humor almost every day  we are shooting the series.

Jms at B5  : cat-igniting tournaments on-set, always great fun

B5 Online  : From Buxton95

Question   : What is it like to go through the jumpgate? that's  gotta be
rush.

Jms at B5  : I'd imagine it's a little like being audited.  But REAL fast

B5 Online  : From Cao Cao97

Question   : Will we see Sheridan's old ship, the Agamemnon, in the great
war?

Jms at B5  : .................oh, yeah           (sinister, evil smile)

BB at B5   : We'll see the Agamemnon next season....but you'll have to wait
and see what happens.

B5 Online  : From Chirurgeo

Question   : JMS, will the station be getting a new telepath?

Jms at B5  : From the PsiCorps?  No.

B5 Online  : From Annie Key

Question   : JMS - If you had been there when Kosh was revealed, what would
you have seen ?

Jms at B5  : Michigan J. Frog

BB at B5   : The same as Londo.  yuk yuk. ga

Jms at B5  : hey, actor-boy...c'mere...

B5 Online  : From BDerb

Question   : What led you to do aScience fiction show, and specifically
 where did the inspiration for B5 come from??

Jms at B5  : Always an SF fan; wanted to do an epic since growing  up on
them; inspiration not from  any one source, but lots of little things:
history, religion, Jungian psychology, early Babylonian history, some
sociological stuff I wanted to get into, and 'cause I had a cool idea.  SF is
made for this kind of show, but this kind of thing hasn't been done much on
American TV, though the British have done plenty of it.  It's our turn.   

B5 Online  : From Fillingim

Question   : When Morden was caught by Sheridan and in a cell, it  appeared
the Morden was in a trance and he appeared to be trying to influence Sheridan
to  let them go....Was the sound Sheridan heard over the Monitors that of the
Shadows influencing him?

Jms at B5  : The sound was probably Bruce's agent paging him....

BB at B5   : At least my agent still calls.

Jms at B5  : Yeah, but he keeps forgetting your name.

BB at B5   : Sheridan was able to get a glimpse of the shadows  accompanying
Morden.

Jms at B5  : But no, no influence was exerted (Agent of Darkness  above).
 The sound just twigged him to see it.

B5 Online  : From DKeith215

Question   : BB how do you like playing Capt. Sheridan

BB at B5   : I love it.  I look forward to coming to work everyday, we have a
great cast and crew  and the stories in the scripts are exciting to bring to
life.

B5 Online  : From NCTRNLMN6

Question   : Who does the music for your show?

Jms at B5  : Christopher Franke, one of the founding members of  Tangerine
Dream.

B5 Online  : Visit the Web Site for Sonic Images through B5's jumpgate to the
World Wide Web!  Keyword: Babylon5

Jms at B5  : You can order Chris's soundtrack via the Sonic Web 
             Page above

B5 Online  : From CamelWide

Question   : Love the show.  What's Andrea Thompson's status with the show?

Jms at B5  : In a box by the door.  

B5 Online  : From SHOCKU

Question   : Hi Bruce....Did you find it easy or difficult to switch from
doing Scarecro w and Mrs. King to B5

BB at B5   : Scarecrow went off the air ten years ago.  Therefore it was
easy.

B5 Online  : From WAARLOCK

Jms at B5  : Should mention btw there'll be a HUGE change in the  show next
year. It'll be a total turn-around in the very structure of the B5 series and
universe.

Question   : When will the Shadows finally win and take their rightful place
as masters of us all<G>

Jms at B5  : As soon as Bob Dole is elected President.

B5 Online  : What kind of change can we expect?

Jms at B5  : That would be telling.  But it's a huge one, and  a *permanent*
one.

B5 Online  : From OscarJ

Question   : Any hints on what will happen in season 3?

Jms at B5  : Matters get more intense.  B5 has to deal with the whole
assassination storyline once and for all...and everything turns upside down
 for everyone.  Except Kosh.

B5 Online  : From Mfc2112

Question   : JMS, do you see recent changes in DS9's format as a response to
B5's popularity?

Jms at B5  : Certainly I'm pleased to see that they're responding  to some of
the changes we've wrought on the world of SF, production-wise and in other
areas...our sense is that we  can never "challenge" (though that's a wrong
word)  the ST hold on SF financially in PR, established name value,
merchandising.. but we can challenge the hell out of them artistically...and
we hope that they come right back at us and challenge *us*...with the
ultimate beneficiary being the viewers.

B5 Online  : From Anthony H

Question   : We know B5 is five miles long, but what is the diameter of
Babylon 5?

Jms at B5  : Five hundred times this:   
             <--------------------------------------------------------------

Jms at B5  : five hundred THOUSAnd times Actually, that's a math
question...nobody told me there'd be a test, mathematics not Zathras'
skill...Ron Thornton has all that info.

B5 Online  : From RDunn2344

Question   : jm, how many fighters does the b5 hold?

Jms at B5  : 4 squadrons total...John C (I know you're there, stop
hiding)..how many per squad now?

BB at B5   : Nine at last count.

Jms at B5  : And we've got backups here and there. We will be adding some NEW
starfuries next season

BB at B5   : Total with reserves, 60.  Math, ugh

B5 Online  : From VetPsycWa

Question   : To JMS:  B5 has become my favorite show, I like it much better
than Star Trek, and even the X-Files (my second favorite).  Do you plan to do
a second five year mini-series?  I can't stand the thought of it ending.

Jms at B5  : I've always had a possible side-story that could go off after
this one, since in making  B5, I worked out the story +/- 10 years on either
side, in building the universe, so there's plenty of stories there. I"m open
to it, but if it happens, only Kosh knows.

B5 Online  : From Winter999 for Bruce:

Question   : What are you're hours like?  How much sleep do you get?

BB at B5   : Well with a new baby, much fewer.  But work-wise, it's not bad,
most days are around 12 hours. ga

B5 Online  : We'll take 2 more questions.

B5 Online  : From BobboG2

Question   : Just what is the derivation of "Zokolow?"

Jms at B5  : It's from the South American language, meaning Grand Plaza

BB at B5   : Zocalo is a Latin American term for central market place.
Jms at B5  : spelled Zocalo

Jms at B5  : same difference

B5 Online  : Last question: From DaveMage

Question   : If B-5 continues to enjoy success, will you extend it beyond the
5-year plan?

Jms at B5  : As noted above, there's a possibility of a side-story, but the
B5 story itself ends in 5 years...my partner Doug wants to do a B5 movie, but
then...

BB at B5   : Kaboom

Jms at B5  : Doug also wants to conquer Mars, so there you are. But this
story has a definite beginning, middle and end, I can't walk away from that.
 C'Mon, someone must have one REALLY good question to end this with.  (no
pressure) (we're all watching) (this will be half your grade)

B5 Online  : From Alison JL

Question   : Will there be a future storyline with the current  Captain and
his predecessor?

Jms at B5  : In the two-parter, we will put Sinclair and Sheridan together
for most of the story  which will tie up the whole Babylon 4 storyline, and
resolve many of the questions still  outstanding from that and other areas.
 It should be a hoot; we're overall working to make year three more intense,
bigger, with more astonishing CGI than before.  It's going to be a real hoot.
 We've seen the first half dozen or so, and they're all totally top-notch, in
large measure due to the actors like Bruce, and Andreas, and...Claudia, and
Mira, and all the others.  It's something we're all very proud of. (damn,
ended on a dangling participle.)

OnlineHost : Babylon 5 Online would like to thank Bruce Boxleitner and J.
Michael Straczynski for being our guests this evening at our official
inauguration the new Babylon 5 Space Station online  (keyword BABYLON 5.) 

B5 Online  : Thanks Bruce.  Thanks Joe.

Jms at B5  : Anytime...Writer-boy signing off

OnlineHost : Make your trip to this hot new space station and become a
permanent member of the  Babylon 5 Online family.  Goodnight from Babylon 5!

B5 Online  : We'll see you in the Eclispe Cafe!

B5 Online  : (c) 1995 PTN Consortium

B5 Online  : Thanks for coming everyone!

BB at B5   : Thanks it's been a real pleasure
