On March 24th, Babylon 5 Online was proud to welcome Patricia 
Tallman to our home and our Babylon 5 community!  Below is a 
transcript from the event!

Copyright 1996 America Online, Inc.

OnlineHost : The auditorium consists of two major areas: the 
audience, where you are right now, and the stage, where the speakers 
appear. Text which you type onscreen shows only to those in your 
row, prefaced by the row number in parentheses, such as (2) if you 
are in row 2. To interact with the speaker, use the Interact icon on 
your screen.

OnlineHost : To send your question to the speaker, click on the 
Interact icon, then use the Ask a Question option.

OnlineHost : Tonight we are joined by Patricia Tallman, a very 
talented actress and stuntwoman who first appeared in the pilot 
movie of Babylon 5, and recently reprised her role as a rogue 
telepath in the second and third seasons.  She has also appeared in 
"Night of the Living Dead" and the new "Star Trek" series of 
spinoffs. Welcome, Patricia!

PT at B5   : Hello!

B5 Online  : From JIMXXYZ

Question   : Hi: Babylon 5 sorta reminds me of a 50's space show.  
Any ideas why it survived when other sci-fi shows released about the 
same time are now  collector's items?

PT at B5   : For one thing, J. Michael Straczynski create the  show, 
he has a brilliant five year plot line that nobody else is doing. 
The characters have grown with everyone, and Joe  keeps us 
constantly on our toes - you never know what's coming next.  This is 
NOT a  predictable show. :)

B5 Online  : From Larry Che...

Question   : Will the role of Lyta replace Talia's role of "station 
telepath?"

PT at B5   : No.  Lyta has her own stroyline and always has.  Even  
if Talia had stayed with the show, Lyta would have come in with her 
storyline with Kosh.

B5 Online  : From SandraB85...

Question   : Pat, When will we see you on the show again.  I  
understand it will be very soon.

PT at B5   : I just shot an episode called "Walkabout"... but Im  
afraid it won't air for quite a while. Maybe not even until next 
season.

B5 Online  : From AChag1948...

Question   : Hi Patricia........I was wondering if you are doing  
any stunt work in the new "Jurassic Park" Movie, assuming it's 
actually going to be made.

PT at B5   : It depends on the stunt coordinator.  I would LOVE to  
be part of it, but I have no idea

PT at B5   : if it would be appropriate.  It depends on who the  
actresses are. :)

B5 Online  : From PIZZAZZ2...

OnlineHost :  Evening... how are you tonight

PT at B5   : Im great, thanks, hope everyone else is!

B5 Online  : From Lkrepel... 

Question   : What roles did you play/episodes did you appear in on 
Star Trek?

PT at B5   : Ive done about 20 episodes on TNG, Voyager, and DS9.  
Some of the guest stars would be Kiros on "Starship Mine," which 
just aired  the other night... Jera the Romulan on TNG... Nima on 
"Battlelines" on  DS9... "Weapons Officer" on DS9.  And... Nurse 
Takamura on  DS9.   In addition to countless target practice roles, 
falls, hits, fights, etc. on all three shows. Im currently working 
on DS9 doubling Terry Farrell.

B5 Online  : From Pinkleaps...

Question   : Do you like the changes that character has gone  
through from the pilot to now? It seems Lyta is becoming a more 
challenging role to play?

PT at B5   : Very much! If I were able to pick a path for Lyta, it 
would be to be able to become more of a soldier for the Light, and 
that seems to be in the  direction that Joe is taking her - but you 
never know...

B5 Online  : I hate when you do that... ;>

B5 Online  : From CYaros...

Question   : what is the connection between you and Kosh

PT at B5   : I could very Vorlon and say, "There is a connection 
between us all."  But to be honest with you, there is more to it 
than even I know. From what I understand, Kosh to me is like a  
religious mentor.  I have that kind of passion for him, as if he 
were Jesus. There seems to be, however, something a bit sinister  
going on, and that's all I can say. If Joe is in the audience...  he 
could perhaps expound further.

B5 Online  : Hmmm... Welcome Joe!

Jms at B5  : Jeez, a man can't even lurk around here...this is  
*Pat's* hour in the spotlight, not mine.

PT at B5   : Did I say too much, Joe?

Jms at B5  : No, you were just fine.  As always.

PT at B5   : Of course you can't lurk - you're too big a guy!

Jms at B5  : Well, I can loom real good....

B5 Online  : From PaxilBndi...

Question   : Do you expect your role to increase over the next two  
years?

PT at B5   : JOE....

Jms at B5  : (smiles all-knowingly)

PT at B5   : That says it all. And all I can say. ;>

Jms at B5  : I would suggest that there's a very good chance of 
this, yes.

PT at B5   : YES!!!!

Jms at B5  : Once we recast the role.

PT at B5   : Ouch!

Jms at B5  : JOKE JOKE JOKE JOKE JOKE....!  

PT at B5   : not funny  Sick in the mind, folks!

Jms at B5  : (Don't hit me, I'm a sick man.)

PT at B5   : Sick in the mind, folks!

Jms at B5  : We're all *extremely* fond of Pat on the show, and she 
brightens up the place for... mall of us, a great performer, and 
we're lucky to have her.  (Can I come inside now?)

PT at B5   : O.K., all better now.:>

B5 Online  : From Von Schaa...

Question   : Any teasers about "Walkabout" you would like to share  
with us?

PT at B5   : I think I can say... I get to be on a ship I've been  
dying to get aboard.  it's a special episode for me. For one thing, 
I got to meet Bill Mumy.

Jms at B5  : It's also fair to say that Lyta gets as close to a  
shadow vessel as anyone ever should... and her role has a key here 
to increasing over time.

B5 Online  : From GrimJack4...

Question   : Patricia: Having worked on both Trek and B5- do you  
have a preference? What sorts of differences between the two shows 
cats/crews?

PT at B5   : Oh Puhleeze!  There's no question!  B5 is a very  
special show with very special people, we have so much fun and we're 
very proud of  our product.  The Paramount shows are fun in a 
different way.  I am  just a grunt over there in the stunt family 
and we do the best with what we got.

B5 Online  : So her job is safe then, JMS... good. :)

B5 Online  : From PsiLytaA....

Question   : did the scene with the Centauri telepath creep you  out 
as much as it did the audience?

Jms at B5  : I think a *lot* can be done with Lyta, and I'm 
             looking forward to it, yes.

PT at B5   : I felt, as Lyta, in control there, and disgusted by  
the Centauri. I'm glad it was effective for you.  I am feeling  
schizophrenic (sp?) talking to you, BTW. mAnd Joe... how do you mean 
that?  HmmMmMM?

Jms at B5  : If you came to more staff meetings you'd know the  
answer to that. Suffice to say...fun stuff for an actor to play.

PT at B5   : Am I invited?? :D

Jms at B5  : Always, Pat.  (Have I now made up for that crack  
above, or shall I do penance for... the next 2,000 years?)

B5 Online  : From Mike 1061...

Question   : At the End of PTG were you sending or receiving?

PT at B5   : (I haven't decided yet, Joe..) Anyway.. I was SENDING, 
but both had been going on - if you  know what I mean.

B5 Online  : From CYaros...

Question   : will you be attending any conventions this year

PT at B5   : Yes, they are building up!   I will be in San  
Francisco April 12-14th at Syndicon (Joe?)

Jms at B5  : Yes, you will, Pat.

PT at B5   : And Columbus, Ohio in May, and Chicago in June (I  
hope).

Jms at B5  : (shakes head, playing stooge again)

PT at B5   : And London in August.

B5 Online  : From PaxilBndi...
Question   : Are you happy with your characters storyline?

Jms at B5  : YES SHE IS, DAMN IT!

PT at B5   : Yes!  Ecstatic!

B5 Online  : Wowsers!

Jms at B5  : (I've gotta cut back on the caffeine...)

B5 Online  : From James YO...

Question   : Will Lyta's appearance be changing in the future?

PT at B5   : I HOPE not.. because I hate wearing prosthetics.   They 
are uncomfortable... and you're in makeup FOREVER.  I've done it to 
death!  In "Army  of Darkness"... that was a 4 1/2 hour makeup job.. 
I worked 17 hours,  and it took another 2 1/2 to get out of it.  The 
KNB guys (The special Effects  Guys) had to hold me down by the end 
of the day to get the contact lenses back in my eyes. It was a total 
nightmare!

Jms at B5  : I saw that bit, Pat...couldn't tell it was you at  ALL.

PT at B5   : The itching really gets me.. Now Joe knows what to do 
if he gets  mad at me :>

Jms at B5  : These prosthetics will be *much* easier for you, Pat,  
I'll see to it.

PT at B5   : OOOHHHH>>>PLease NOOOO

Jms at B5  : (Thinks she'd make a *terrific* 7-foot tall lizard  
person.)

B5 Online  : From SandraB85...

Question   : Pat, What sort of background can you give us on your  
character, Lyta Alexander?

PT at B5   : ::ahem:: Moving along... Do you have an hour?  It's a 
lot... :D She was very inexperienced when she first got to B5.  Sort 
of friendless, not much with social skills - that sort of thing.  
When she touched the Vorlon, she found something that  was missing 
in her life.

B5 Online  : From CYaros...

Question   : have they been confirmed for a fourth season

PT at B5   : They'd be fools NOT to...

B5 Online  : Hmmmm

PT at B5   : Joe...

Jms at B5  : what?

B5 Online  : I think I'll go sit in the corner now..

PT at B5   : Never mind.

B5 Online  : I think the decision will be made sometime in May. :)

Jms at B5  : We should hear for sure late April/early May. 

B5 Online  : From PaxilBndi...

Question   : Do you  prefer stuntwork or acting?

PT at B5   : At this point I prefer acting, but stunts give me the  
adrenaline rush I seem to require. Maybe I can combine the two - do 
something that  requires me to do my own stuntwork. I'm a big Jackie 
Chan fan!

B5 Online  : From Padria...

Question   : Do you think that Lyta might become a regular next  
season?

PT at B5   : Regular would be good...  unfortunately it's not up  to 
me. Hmmm... Joe?

Jms at B5  : what?

Jms at B5  : s'okay...did I miss anything?

PT at B5   : NAHHH

Jms at B5  : Let's just say I look forward to seeing more of Lyta. 
Her role does become more important as time goes on.

PT at B5   : Hey folks , we have a lot of ?'s , so I can't answer  
any more repeats.  So don't feel bad if I don't answer your question 
personally this time.

B5 Online  : From JIMXXYZ... 

Question   : What role did you play in night of the living dead?

PT at B5   : You can't miss me in "Night!"  I have short red hair  
and a big gun.

Jms at B5  : Very tough woman there...Pat Tallmanatrix

B5 Online  : From CYaros...

Jms at B5  : (in "dead")

Question   : are you a sci-fi,horror fan

PT at B5   : Oh Joe.. yes, big time.

Jms at B5  : yes, Pat?

PT at B5   : Never mind, Joe.  Later

Jms at B5  : "Night" was where I discovered Pat's work... I was 
blown away by her work, and was determined to find her and hire her.

B5 Online  : From SandraB85...

Question   : Pat, Could you compare working with Michael O'Hare on  
the pilot and working with Bruce Boxleitner this year? Thanks.

PT at B5   : I only worked with Michael for the pilot, and have  
worked with Bruce several times.  I adore Bruce and think his wife 
is terrific!  He's one  of the reason the set is so much fun and so 
comfortable to work on. 

Jms at B5  : (did you want to elaborate on being an sf/horror fan, 
             as above, if you were cut off?)

PT at B5   : Joe, are you tired of telling that story? 

Jms at B5  : (going now to sit in corner)

PT at B5   : And , no that's all I had to say

B5 Online  : From Grimjack4...

Question   : Has Joe explained the gills yet - they were 
freaky/creepy

PT at B5   : The gills allow me to breathe the Vorlon atmosphere.  
We have yet to see how they will come to play in the future.. and if 
I've been altered  any other way.  How do Vorlons have babies, 
anyway??? Joe?

Jms at B5  : what?

B5 Online  : Hmmmm

B5 Online  : From Lkrepel...

Question   : How far ahead in the storyline does JMS let you in  on?

PT at B5   : None. He is a firm believer in the Need-To-Know  
policy.

B5 Online  : From Mike 1061...

PT at B5   : But I can guess.

Question   : Pat - Any ideas as to when Lyta will work with the  
Rangers?

PT at B5   : No, but wouldn't that be fun!  All those lonely men  in 
uniform.  And God knows, Lyta needs some action! Joe? ;>

Jms at B5  : what?

PT at B5   : I give up.

Jms at B5  : Lyta and the rangers would be a fine thing.

PT at B5   : OOOOO goody.

B5 Online  : From Lolson773...

Question   : Pat, have you ever had any telepathic or paranormal 
experiences yourself

PT at B5   : I knew youwere going to ask that... Of course, I think 
everyone has.  That's why X-Files  is so popular. And that's a whole 
discussion unto itself.

B5 Online  : From Lkrepel... 

Question   : Have you found the fan attention/addiction  
overwhelming? Yet? <g>

Jms at B5  : Except, of course, they're all dead by then.

PT at B5   : (What does that mean, Joe?)

Jms at B5  : what?  Just figured I'd get half the chat rows to fall 
over 
             if I said that.

PT at B5   : I find it kind of inexplicable, but I really enjoy  it.  
I'd be lying if I said I didn't. I was hoping it wasnt a comment on 
my "charms"

Jms at B5  : No, no...was just playing about maybe something big 
happening.

B5 Online  : From Nance02

Question   : What do you consider most interesting about the  
character of Lyta, and what aspect do you find the most challenging 
to play?

PT at B5   : The most interesting thing is, we have NO idea what's  
really going on with her. And the most challenging is... acting 
against a blue  screen.  You'll see what I mean in "Walkabout." 

B5 Online  : From VitoDiM... 

Question   : Did you watch B5 when you were not actually on?

PT at B5   : Between the pilot and the Divided Loyalties, not  
really.  Since then, of course!

B5 Online  : Folks, we have one more question for tonight.... And 
finally Pat...

Question   : How did you get into doing stuntwork?

PT at B5   : I met stunt people while I was taking a sword study  
class in New York, and they thought I would be a good stuntwoman.  
The rest is history.  :)

Jms at B5  : Pat: you know sword stuff?  How well?

PT at B5   : Very well!! It was a major thing for me in school

Jms at B5  : Cool...that could be useful.

B5 Online  : Thanks for joining us for our conference with  Patricia 
Tallman.  Join us tomorrow when the B5  Sweepstakes goes online!

B5 Online  : We want to thank Patricia and JMS for joining us. :)

PT at B5   : Thank you everyone!  Im so glad you were  interested... 
maybe we can do this again some time.  God Bless!

Jms at B5  : A big hand for Pat...a joy to work with, and fun

PT at B5   : Goes both ways Joe!

B5 Online  : Thanks again everyone!  Join us at Babylon 5 Online at  
Keyword "Babylon 5"!

OnlineHost : Copyright 1996 America Online, Inc.
