This is a transcript of a May 14, 1996 online chat with Richard Biggs.
This file is best viewed in a window larger than 80 columns, if possible.


OnlineHost:      Tonight we are joined by Richard Biggs, star of the science fiction hit "Babylon 5."
OnlineHost:      Rick's other work includes "Days of Our Lives" and numerous television appearances.
B5 Online:      Welcome Rick!
Rick at B5:     Good to be here!  Ready for your questions!
B5 Online:      From Cyaros...
Question:       just seen you ,joe and pat at marcon in columbus great time thanks
B5 Online:      From Mibari1...
Question:       Now that Franklin has resigned from Med Lab, what does that mean for the character? The
Question:       War council, etc?
Rick at B5:     More emotional, sexual, spiritual dimensions through other relationship other than Medlab.
B5 Online:      From Jst...
Question:       How are the pens working?
Rick at B5:     The pens are working WONDERFULLY, and thank you. :)
B5 Online:      From LSDB5...
Question:       What will Franklin be doing while away from his position? Possibly a Ranger, I hope!
Rick at B5:     A love interest.  No, Jason is not available.
B5 Online:      :D
Rick at B5:     Trying to find himself.  Franklin is trying to come to terms with who he is.
B5 Online:      From Nethicus...
Question:       Do you find working on B5 similar to experience working on Soap Operas?
Rick at B5:     No, B5 is more relaxed... more challenging.  Soap Operas are very easy to do compared to
Rick at B5:     Babylon 5.
B5 Online:      From Its A Myth...
Question:       For Rick: Judging from last episode, you're in great shape. What do you do to work out?
Rick at B5:     What do I do... hmm. I try to stay away from the Snicker bars and go to the gym a lot.
B5 Online:      From JH...
Question:       Hi!  This is Jennifer from South Carolina.  Do you find Sci Fi audiences much different
Question:       from Soap audiences.  We would love to see you back at Celebrity Softball soon!
Rick at B5:     Hey! How ya'll doin down thar in S. Carolina? :D  Soap Opera friends are crazy, wild...
Rick at B5:     on the edge.  SF fans are more cerebral.. more "Lets sit down and talk about the future."
B5 Online:      From Pitzerboy...
Question:       just wondering if you did any research for the addiction-thing....
Rick at B5:     Yeah... I tried to do some reading, research.  i tried to talk to people who have a
Rick at B5:     problem like that.
B5 Online:      From Garibaldi...
Question:       Do you have any special way of memorizing your lines?
Rick at B5:     I did a lot of theater and that kind of gets me through.  What I do is I have people
Rick at B5:     volunteer to read my lines to me over.. and over.. and over again - they hate me. :D
B5 Online:      From DraziPurp...
Question:       Who's going to take over as Medical CHief of staff now that Franklin is gone?
Rick at B5:     They are all very capable - they are the best.  They can do just fine without me, Im sure.
Question:       How long does it take to shoot an episode?
Rick at B5:     It takes 7 working days.  From 6:30-7PM. :)
B5 Online:      From BYU...
Question:       Rick...were you an athlete in high school, and if so, what sports did you play?
Rick at B5:     In High School i sat on the bench.. 2nd string football.  I broke my knee.. my arm...
Rick at B5:     my shoulder.
B5 Online:      From Tenor Ab...
Question:       I'm an amateur actor who is interested in pursuing a professional career.  How did you get
Question:       started, and what do you recommend for someone who hopes to?
Rick at B5:     High School drama is where I started.. and college theatre.    Probably recommend
Rick at B5:     theatre, theatre, theatre!
B5 Online:      So, your saying theatre, Rick?
B5 Online:      From Trkgr...
Question:       what shows did you do before babylon?
Rick at B5:     Days of Our Lives.. Gary Shandlings Show, Three's A Crowd,  Three's Company.
B5 Online:      From Lcclp...
Question:       Will Dr. Franklin find himself in time to help when Shadws attack B5?
Rick at B5:     No and Yes.
Rick at B5:     They attack, but he's not back yet.
B5 Online:      From Pitzerboy...
Question:       any future non-B5 projects coming up?
Rick at B5:     There are some things in the air, but nothing's really sticking yet.  Theatre, Movie of
Rick at B5:     the Week - a lot of stuff but nothing firm.
B5 Online:      From Archer...
Question:       Richard, when you saw the resignation scene, knowing JMS penchant for offing characters,
Question:       did you fear for your job?
Rick at B5:     Sure!  Yeah.  Especially with the fact that anyone can go at anytime.  If it happens, it
Rick at B5:     happens.
B5 Online:      From Hologhost...
Question:       How do you expect your characters father to react to the addiction plotline?
Rick at B5:     I hope the situation comes into play with boththe addiction and the secession storylines..
Rick at B5:     A lot of people have asked me that - I hope Joe listens.
Question:       Hi Rick...it's me, your old fan club prez, Janice!  Are you still teaching acting in
Question:       Sacramento at John Robert Powers?
Rick at B5:     Hi Janice!  No teaching there, but other places. :)
B5 Online:      From Earl K1...
Question:       Which scene or episode have you found most diffcult to prepare for?
Rick at B5:     An episode coming up that was very emotional.  It was very draining.
B5 Online:      From Lollie...
Question:       Richard, How did you get involved with Babylon 5?
Rick at B5:     My agent called and sent me on the audition.   I went through 4 callbacks and I got the
Rick at B5:     part.
Question:       Marcus!  When are they going to bring you back to "Days"?  I'm a little off track on the
Question:       topic here. . .just wondering.  I thought you were great.
Rick at B5:     Marcus at a medical convention in Los Angeles racking up a hell of a hotel bill right now.
Rick at B5:     No plans to get back.
B5 Online:      From Hologhost
Question:       The arc is so serious now, how do you and the other actors lighten things up around the
Question:       set?
Rick at B5:     We hang out with Claudia. :D
B5 Online:      From Sning1..
Question:       What direction would you like JMS to take your character, and how would you compare this
Question:       role to Marcus on "Days"?
Rick at B5:     Comedy.  You can't really compare the two roles - they are two totally different people.
B5 Online:      from AMorold...
Question:       Do you like working sci-fi and did you have to get used to working with "aliens"?
B5 Online:      Hey! I resemble that remark!
B5 Online:      From JBRod222...
Question:       Good Evening. I was very pleased with your performance on b5. It was the first time i
Question:       realy have seen drug addiction dealt with on a major sci-fi show.
Rick at B5:     Thank you.
B5 Online:      From Hologhost...
Question:       Have you been online before?
Rick at B5:     All the time.  I have a computer.  Im listening to what you all are saying when you talk
Rick at B5:     bad about me. ;>
B5 Online:      From HO Katarn
Question:       How much of the final story do you and the rest of the cast know?
Rick at B5:     None.  We just know the next script as it comes down.
B5 Online:      From EAPR...
Question:       Wo;; we see any interspecies dating for Dr Franklin?
Rick at B5:     GOOD Storyline!  I see the Dr. falling for a cute .. i dont know.. are there any female
Rick at B5:     Vorlons? Hmmm
B5 Online:      From Garibaldi
Question:       Have you worked with any of the B5 cast members before?
Rick at B5:     No, but I've worked with people behind the scenes on other shows.
B5 Online:      From Mudmaster....
Question:       Your presence at the Odium last year in Chicago helped make it a great time for me. Are
Question:       you appearing at any other conventions in the area soon?
Rick at B5:     No, it will be England in June... Virginia in July, Mass., and Cleveland.
B5 Online:      From Minbari1...
Question:       which character would you like Franklin to interact more with?
Rick at B5:     Vir. :D  Ivanova.  I think both of them are very sharp and intelligent and there would be
Rick at B5:     some really great dialogue between the two.
B5 Online:      From Amkosh...
Question:       After B5, would you like to do more sci-fi, or pursue a different genre of acting?
Rick at B5:     I think I would kind of like to go and do something else.  More theatre or feature film.
B5 Online:      From Londo2...
Question:       Hi! This is James from England again. Will you be comming here for BABCOM '96?
Rick at B5:     At the end of July, yeah, I will be there for Babcom!  Along with a few other people.  :)
B5 Online:      From Archer C1...
Question:       Have you had much experience with British b5 fans?  Since the show is so popular over
Question:       there are they at a different intensity level than US fans?
Rick at B5:     They certainly enjoy the show and follow it more intensely and they appreciate it.  They
Rick at B5:     don't have to see the reruns as much over there. They see all the shows at once.
B5 Online:      From Tenor Ab...
Question:       Who have you learned the most by working with on the show?
Rick at B5:     Probably John Flinn, the cameraman.
B5 Online:      From Lcclp
Question:       Rick, from a rather minor character, you have built Franklin into a charaacter with many
Question:       dimensions. Did you konw that would happen when you signed on?
Rick at B5:     No, but that was my objective with him.  Coming from the soap "one dimensional" character
Rick at B5:     I was determined to make him three dimensional.
B5 Online:      From Alathal...
Question:       Where did you go to school, and did you have any formal acting training?
Rick at B5:     Yeah, I went to USC for 6 years.  I had Classical Training.
B5 Online:      From RedQueen5...
Question:       How do u feel about the portrayel of blacks in the B5 Universe?
Rick at B5:     Lack of?  If you can clarify I would appreciate it.
B5 Online:      From GreenGoo7...
Question:       Hi from British Columbia.  What's the funniest thing that has happened on the set
Rick at B5:     The funniest thing was Majel Barrett walking into a door without it opening and smacked
Rick at B5:     her in the face. :D
B5 Online:      From Its a Myth...
Question:       What do you think of the new uniforms?
Rick at B5:     I like them a lot better, they look rebellious.
B5 Online:      And now for the last question tonight...
B5 Online:      From Pitzerboy...
Question:       rick.. just wondering how you feel about the merchandising end of entertainment. do you
Question:       think B5 should be more active? how about dr. franklin action figure.....
Rick at B5:     Hmmm
Rick at B5:     I say go for it!  How about a B5 cartoon?  A B5 lunchbox maybe?
B5 Online:      I want to thank everybody for joining us tonight with our conference with Rick Biggs of
B5 Online:      "Babylon 5."  I would like to invite everyone to the Eclipse Cafe for some munchies... and of
B5 Online:      course downloadable videos of the 2 parter!
B5 Online:      Thanks again Rick!
Rick at B5:     Keep watching and Ill see you at a convention some time!  Thanks!
OnlineHost:     Copyright 1996 America Online, Inc.
