
The *Unofficial* Babylon 5
**************************
Encyclopedia
************

SPOILER WARNING: The information contained within may
present spoiler information if you have not seen all the episodes.
It is HIGHLY recommended that this guide be used as a
reference AFTER you have seen an episode.

Numbers in parentheses represent the Production Number of the
episode in which that information was first found, if appropriate.
The pilot movie is listed as (PIL). A complete episode list is at
the end.

Information from the pilot movie and the first 29 aired episodes
(through Soul Mates) have been included.

Spellings of terms come from a variety of sources. What JMS
says is given top priority :^), followed by closed-captioning if it
appears to be close, followed by whatever it sounds like to me...

Maintained and edited by Brian O'Neill (oneill@cs.uml.edu).
Corrections and prodding by David Henderson (
davidh@camelot.bradley.edu).

A
*

Abbai 4 
   One of the members of the League of Non-Aligned
   Worlds. 
Abbut 
   A Vicor employed by Ambassador Kosh to record the
   thought patterns of Talia Winters. (Played by Cosie
   Costa) (113) 
Abby 
   (No last name given) Senior telepath who guided Talia
   Winters through her first year at Psi Corps. (206) 
Agamemnon 
   Earth Alliance heavy cruiser patrolling the Rim. (121) 
Air Dome 
   Earth Alliance fighter pilot training center. (122) 
Alexander, Lyta 
   Psi Corps level P5 telepath, assigned to Babylon 5 in
   2257. Later transferred to Earth. Born Earth, December
   10th, 2225. 6th generation telepath, registered with the
   Psi Corps December 18th, 2252, license N617CC860.
   (Played by Patricia Tallman) (PIL) 
Alien Sector 
   Section of Babylon 5 devoted to aliens with non-standard
   breathing requirements. 
Allen, Zack 
   Security officer on Babylon 5. (Played by Jeff Conaway)
   (206) 
Alyt 
   Commander of a Minbari ship when the regular captain is
   absent. (115) 
Amazonis Planitia 
   Region of Mars near the Mars Colony. (109) 
Amis 
   Former GROPO and only survivor of a mysterious alien
   attack during the Earth/Minbari War. (Played by Dwight
   Schultz) (205) 
Antarean Flar 
   Unspecified delicacy. (108) 
Antares Sector 
   Unspecified sector of space. (PIL) 
Antiagathic 
   Drug which halts or reverses the aging process, resulting
   in virtual immortality. (113) 
Article 35 
   Earth Alliance law stating that questions regarding
   interpretation of regulations must be solved in a hearing
   with at least 5 senior officers. (122) 
Ashok, Vakar 
   SunHawk captain for the Drazi Freehold. (Played by
   Mark Hendrickson) (113) 
Asimov 
   Earth Alliance Starliner. (102) 
Atambe, Major 
   C&C officer on Babylon 5. (122) 

B
*

Babylon 4 
   The biggest and most expensive of the Babylon stations,
   and the first to be completed (the previous three were
   sabotaged and destroyed during construction). Babylon 4
   disappeared without a trace 24 hours after becoming
   operational. It was later discovered that the station was
   "stolen" and being transported forward in time to be used
   as a base of operations in a war that was to take place in
   the future. Communications ID code 0010835-081677.
   (118) 
Babylon 5 
   A space station built and run by the Earth Alliance
   located in neutral space more or less central to all five of
   the major races. It is 10 kilometers long and four
   kilometers wide, and is divided into various sections.
   Babylon 5 is the fifth station to carry the name
   "Babylon", built on a minimal budget due to the loss of 
   Babylon 4. 
Babylon 5 Advisory Council 
   Advisory council of Babylon 5, consisting of the
   ambassadors from the 5 major races ( Centauri Republic, 
   Earth Alliance, Minbari Federation, Narn Regime, and 
   Vorlon Empire), as well as the League of Non-Aligned
   Worlds. (103) 
Balus 
   World conquered by the Dilgar and later recaptured by
   the Earth Alliance. (113) 
Battle of Nu'Shok 
   Centauri battle around 2160 where the Eye was lost. (116)
Battle of Salos 
   Battle between Earth Alliance and Dilgar forces where
   the Dilgar were defeated and Jha'dur fled. (113) 
Battle of the Line 
   The final battle of the Earth/Minbari War, fought around
   Earth itself. The Earth Alliance put up a last ditch effort
   to defend itself against the oncoming Minbari forces, but
   were decimated. Then, without explanation, the Minbari
   surrendered. It is later discovered that the Minbari
   surrendered so as to not harm their "souls". 
Beldon, Alisa 
   Teenager stranded on Babylon 5 when her father, Eliot,
   died. Started to exhibit strong Psi ability (estimated P10)
   with the onset of puberty. Left Babylon 5 to train with the
   Minbari. Born 12 July 2244. (Played by Grace Una) (115) 
Beldon, Eliot 
   Father of Alisa Beldon, he brought her to Babylon 5 in
   2256 where he worked in construction until his
   termination in 2258. He was killed in an accident shortly
   afterwards. (115) 
Beldon, Esperanza 
   Mother of Alisa Beldon, died in 2250 from Stafford's
   Plague. (115) 
Benson, Frank 
   Security officer on Babylon 5 who developed large
   gambling debts. Was used by Knight One to secure a
   power source, and later killed by him. (Played by Jim
   Youngs) (106) 
Benzan 
   Mollari household god of food. (108) 
Ben Zayn, Colonel Ari 
   Earth Alliance Internal Affairs investigator who was in
   the top ten list to be chosen as commander of Babylon 5,
   and who resented Sinclair for being chosen. Posed as 
   Aaron Franks of the Quartermaster Corporation while
   investigating Sinclair. (Played by Gregory Martin) (122) 
Bester 
   Psi Cop. Assigned with Kelsey to capture Ironheart.
   (Played by Walter Koenig) (110) 
Biggs, Malcolm 
   Leader of Homeguard group. Old acquaintance of Ivanova.
   (Played by Tristan Rogers) (107) 
Black Omega 
   Earth Alliance Interceptor squadron, consisting of a
   modified (and expensive) version of Starfury equipped
   with stealth capabilities. (110) 
Black Star 
   Minbari flagship during the Earth/Minbari War which
   was destroyed by mines layed by Sheridan, earning the 
   Earth Alliance its only victory in the war and Sheridan
   the name "StarKiller". (121) 
Blacklight Camouflage 
   Electronic camouflage developed by Earth Force which
   bends light so that the object blends into the background.
   (107) 
Book Universe 
   Bookstore located on Babylon 5. (113) 
Born of the Egg 
   See Children of Time. 
Boudreau, Elise 
   EarthGov senator. (Played by Jessica Walter) (206) 
Brain Wipe 
   Removal of a person's memory and personality. (109,117)
Branmer 
   Minbari Shai Alyt and "Hero of the Line", a former high
   priest who joined the Star Riders clan for the 
   Earth/Minbari War, where he took part in the Battle of
   the Line and was one of the Minbari responsible for the
   decimation of Sinclair's squadron. Died in 2258, when his
   body was paraded in front of all Minbari by the Star
   Riders and Alyt Neroon until Delenn had the body
   cremated. (115) 
Bureau 13 
   Secret organization within EarthGov dealing with black
   projects and star-chamber justice. (206) 

C
*

C-15 
   Explosive. (111) 
Caliban 
   Former Mutari who helps Walker Smith to become the
   first human participant in the Mutai. (Played by Don
   Stroud) (119) 
Carter, Amanda 
   Member of the Mars Colony Business Affairs Committee
   and former member of Free Mars. (Played by Adrienne
   Barbeau) (206) 
Carter, John 
   Great grandfather to Amanda Carter who volunteered to
   pilot the first colony ship to Mars. (206) 
Centauri Prime 
   Homeworld of the Centauri Republic. 
Centauri Republic 
   Political organization of the Centauri. 
Chakan 
   Provisional governor of the Mars Colony. (120) 
Chang, Doctor 
   Person in charge of the Icarus expedition to investigate an
   ancient race out on the Rim. (122) 
Changeling Net 
   A form of holographic camouflage which allows the user
   to appear in any recorded form. Prolonged use can be
   fatal. (PIL) 
Children of Time 
   Members of a religious egg-born race. Also call
   themselves "The Chosen" and "Born of the Egg". (105) 
Chosen, The 
   See Children of Time. 
Chudomo, Third Fain of 
   Sect of the Minbari religious caste. (108) 
Cirrus, Mariah 
   Woman who travelled in suspended animation on board
   the Copernicus. Her husband, also on the Copernicus, was
   killed during the voyage. (Played by Anne-Marie
   Johnson) (205) 
Clark, Morgan 
   Vice President of the Earth Alliance under Luis Santiago,
   took over as President on January 1st, 2259 after the death
   of Santiago. (112,121,122) 
Cobra Bay 
   Section of Babylon 5 from which Starfury fighters are
   launched. Named for its cobra-like shape. 
Colesto 
   Narn starliner. (113) 
Comac 4 
   Planet destroyed by Jha'dur in 2231. (113) 
Connally, Neeoma 
   Docker's Guild representative on Babylon 5. Father killed
   during the Europa Mining Strikes. (Played by Katy
   Boyer) (114) 
Copernicus 
   A pre-hyperspace deep space vessel, which carried 
   Mariah Cirrus and her husband in suspended animation
   for over a hundred years. (205) 
Cortez 
   Earth Alliance Explorer-class ship. (204) 
Cotto, Vir 
   Assistant to Centauri ambassador Londo Mollari. (Played
   by Stephen Furst) 
Cramer, Mary Ann 
   Reporter for Interstellar Network News. (Played by
   Patricia Healy) (101,114) 
Crane, Marie 
   Challenger to incumbent president Luis Santiago in the 
   Earth Alliance presidential elections of 2258. (103) 
Crawler 
   Land vehicle used on Mars Colony. (109) 
Crystal Port 
   Computer I/O port for use with Data Crystals. 
Cutter 
   Assistant to Major Kemmer on the President's Security
   Staff. A Homeguard supporter who attempted to frame 
   Garibaldi for sabotage. (Played by Tom Donaldson) (111) 

D
*

Daggair 
   One of Londo Mollari's three wives. Divorced in 2259.
   (Played by Lois Nettleton) (208) 
Damocles Sector 
   Sector of space where the rare poison Florazyne may be
   found. (PIL) 
Dark Star 
   Night club on Babylon 5. (117) 
Data Crystal 
   Data storage device currently used by most major races. 
Datya 
   "Father", as used by the Children of Time. (105) 
Davo 
   Planet in the Centauri Republic; homeworld of Adira
   Tyree. (104) 
Deathwalker 
   Epithet used by races in the Non-Aligned sectors to refer
   to Jha'dur. (113) 
Deeron 
   Minbari Alyt in command of the war cruiser sent to
   locate and if necessary destroy the Trigati. (Played by
   Jennifer Anglin) (121) 
Deghoul 
   Alien thief busted by Garibaldi several times. (111) 
Delenn 
   Minbari ambassador to Babylon 5. Apparently Delenn is 
   Satai, a member of the Grey Council, and holds a key to 
   Commander Sinclair's memory. She is under orders to
   kill him if he remembers. (Played by Mira Furlan) 
Delvientos, Alberto 
   Babylon 5 dock worker killed in the Talquith accident.
   Brother of Eduardo Delvientos. (114) 
Delvientos, Eduardo 
   Babylon 5 dock senior foreman. Brother of Alberto
   Delvientos. (Played by Jose Rey) (114) 
Deuce 
   See Mozechenko, Desmond. 
Devereaux, Edgar 
   Businessman involved in a plot to assassinate the Earth
   Alliance president. Later killed by Garibaldi's Aide, Jack.
   (Played by Edward Conery) (112) 
Dilgar 
   Savage warring race that invaded the Non-Aligned
   sectors in 2230 and was defeated in 2232 with the help of
   the Earth Alliance. Their sun later went nova, destroying
   the remaining Dilgar. (113) 
Dorian Massacres 
   Unspecified. (113) 
DownBelow 
   The "underside" of Babylon 5, where Lurkers hide. 
Draal 
   Minbari teacher and mentor to Delenn, who replaced 
   Varn as the guardian of Epsilon 3. (Played by Louis
   Turenne) (120,121) 
Drake, Nelson 
   Assistant to Vance Hendricks. Taken over by one of the
   bioweapons from Ikarra 7. (Played by Marshall Teague)
   (101) 
Drazi 
   Member race of the League of Non-Aligned Worlds.
   Somewhat militant, recognizable by the dark-purple
   heads. Every five years, the Drazi split up into two
   random factions, which battle each other to decide the
   new ruler. 
Drazi Freehold 
   Political organization of the Drazi. (113) 
Du'Rog 
   Narn Councillor. Hired Tu'Pari to kill G'Kar before his
   own death. (Played by Mark Hendrickson) (108) 
Ducat 
   Centauri unit of currency. 
Dukhat 
   Leader of the Minbari and the Grey Council when
   Humans fit met the Minbari. Mortally wounded when the
   first contact went wrong, which resulted in the 
   Earth/Minbari War. Generally considered to be the most
   evolved and wise soul of all the Minbari. (102,115) 
Duridium 
   Chemical by-product of Quantium-40. (110) 

E
*

Earth Alliance 
   Political organization based on Earth which includes the 
   Mars Colony, Jovian moons, and Orion. The Earth
   Alliance built and operates Babylon 5. 
Earthdome 
   Capital of the Earth Alliance located in what used to be
   Geneva, Switzerland, Earth. 
Earth Force 
   Space division of Earth Alliance military. 
Earth Force 1 
   Space cruiser used as transport by the Earth Alliance
   President. (111) 
EarthGov 
   Abbreviation for the Earth Alliance government. 
Earth/Minbari War 
   War which broke out around the year 2245 when a First
   Contact situation with the Minbari went wrong. The 
   Earth Alliance forces interpreted a movement by a
   Minbari ship as threatening and in the ensuing battle the
   Minbari ship was destroyed. The Earth forces returned
   believing an invasion was imminent. It ended with the 
   Battle of the Line around 2248. 
Elric 
   Leader of the Human Technomages. (Played by Michael
   Ansara) (203) 
Epsilon 3 
   The planet near Babylon 5, also known as Euphrates.
   Babylon 5 is located at the L5 point between the planet
   and its solitary moon. It was believed to be barren and
   lifeless, but in fact contained some form of outpost from
   an ancient civilisation. (120,121) 
Euphrates 
   See Epsilon 3. 
Euphrates Treaty 
   Treaty between the Narn Regime and Centauri Republic
   for rights in the Euphrates Sector being negotiated on
   Babylon 5. (104) 
Europa Mining Strikes 
   Strikes on the Jovian moon of Europa for which the Earth
   Senate invoked the Rush Act, resulting in the death of 
   Neeoma Connally's father. (114) 
Explorer Ship 
   Large ships that spend years in deep space constructing 
   Vortex Generators so that scout ships can follow. (204) 
Eye 
   The oldest symbol of Centauri nobility, it belonged to the
   first Centauri emperor. Lost at the Battle of Nu'Shok a
   hundred years prior, it was recovered in 2258. (116) 
Eyes 
   Slang term used by Earth Alliance for Internal Affairs.
   (122) 

F
*

Feeder 
   See na'ka'leen Feeder. 
Finagle's Place 
   Shop on Babylon 5. (204) 
Flinn 
   Person on Babylon 5 whose grandfather was abducted by
   an alien and was attempting to sue for damages from the
   alien's grandson. (Played by John C. Flinn) (109) 
Florazyne 
   Rare poison found in the Damocles Sector. (PIL) 
Flyer 
   Minbari shuttle-type ship. (113) 
Franklin, Dr. Stephen 
   Resident Xenobiologist on Babylon 5. Destroyed his notes
   on the Minbari during the war rather than turn them over
   to the Earth Alliance to be used in development of a
   bioweapon. Replaced Dr. Benjamin Kyle. (Played by
   Richard Biggs) 
Franks, Aaron 
   Pseudonym used by Colonel Ben Zayn. (122) 
Frasi 
   Class of Narn heavy fighter. (110) 
Free Mars 
   Radical organization which wants Mars Colony to secede
   from the Earth Alliance. (122) 
Fresh Air 
   Open air restaurant on Babylon 5. (104) 
FutureCorp 
   Earth corporation seeking a relationship with the Mars
   Colony. (206) 

G
*

G'Drog, Captain 
   Narn Fighter pilot who rescued Sakai at Sigma 957.
   (Played by Michael McKenzie) (110) 
G'Kar 
   Narn ambassador to Babylon 5. Member of the Third
   Circle. (Played by Andreas Katsulas) 
G'Lan 
   Narn religious figure. (114) 
G'Quan 
   Narn religious figure. (114) 
G'Quan Eth 
   Plant indigenous to the Narn homeworld, used as incense
   in religious ceremonies of the followers of G'Quan. The
   seeds can also be added to alcohol to enhance the
   intoxicating effect. (114) 
Gajic, Aldous 
   The only remaining member of the Holy Order that seeks
   the Holy Grail. His wife Sara and kids were killed in an
   accident on Mars while exploring Amazonis Planitia.
   Killed by Deuce. (Played by David Warner) (109) 
Galus, Ray 
   Commander, leader of Zeta squadron on Babylon 5.
   Killed in hyperspace in a near-collision with a Shadow
   ship in 2259. (Played by Art Kimbro) (204) 
Garibaldi, Michael, Chief Warrant Officer 
   Security chief, Babylon 5. He has gotten into trouble at
   various times, usually because he won't back down from
   anyone, causing him to bounce around from job to job and
   develop an alcohol problem. (Played by Jerry Doyle) 
Glopitt Egg 
   Actually a piece of "industrial goo". It was given to Shon
   by Dr. Franklin to take care of, and glows when touched.
   (105) 
Glory Shop, The 
   Shop on Babylon 5. (204) 
Gold Channels 
   High-priority communications channels usable only with
   the expressed permission of the Station Commander. Uses
   tachyon particles for instantaneous communication. (104) 
Gray, Harriman 
   Psi Corps liaison to Earth Force, level P10, loaned to 
   Colonel Ben Zayn by Bester to investigate Sinclair.
   (Played by Jeffery Combs) (122) 
Green Tiger, The 
   Shop on Babylon 5. (204) 
Grey Council 
   Mysterious religious leaders of the Minbari, whose
   members are generally identified by grey cloaks and a
   grey triangle on the forehead. There are 9 members. 
Grid Epsilon 
   Sector of space in which Babylon 5 is located. 
GROPOS 
   See Ground Pounders. 
Ground Pounders 
   Slang term for member of the infantry. GROPOS for
   short. 
Gyor 
   Mutai champion in 2258. (119) 

H
*

H'Ryok 
   Narn councillor dispatched to Babylon 5 to bargain with 
   Jha'dur, but who turned back when Jha'dur was attacked
   by Na'Toth. (113) 
Hague, William, General 
   Chairman of the Earth Alliance Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   (Played by Robert Foxworth) (121) 
Hampton, Lise 
   Former girlfriend of Garibaldi injured during rioting on 
   Mars Colony. (Played by Denise Gentile) (120,121,118) 
Happy Daze 
   Bar found in the DownBelow section of Babylon 5. (111) 
Hazeltine, Eric 
   Babylon 5 environmental technician and acquaintance of 
   Del Varner who was killed by a Minbari assassin posing
   as Varner. (Played by Steven R. Barnett) (PIL) 
Hedronn 
   Member of the Grey Council sent to Babylon 5 to check
   on Delenn when she initiated her transformation. (Played
   by Robin Sachs) (121) 
Hernandez, Dr. Maya 
   Doctor and assistant to Dr. Franklin on Babylon 5.
   (Played by Silvana Gallardo) (105) 
Hendricks, Vance 
   Archaeologist who discovered the ruins of Ikarra 7.
   (Played by David McCallum) (101) 
Hidoshi, Senator 
   Earth senator and liason to Babylon 5. (Played by Aki
   Aleong) 
Hilak 7 
   Narn colony conquered by the Dilgar around 2230. (113) 
Homeguard 
   Pro-Earth group which opposes all relations with aliens.
   (107) 
Horn, Abel 
   Former militant leader of Free Mars. In 2252 sentenced to
   Phobos Maximum Security outpost for the theft of 50
   million credits from the Mars Conglomerate. Transferred
   to Lunis Planum Prison Base after 1 year. Escaped April
   15th, 2253. Supposedly killed by the Earth cruiser 
   Pournelle in 2258 during the Mars Rebellion. Later found
   to have been rescued and used in Project Lazarus by 
   Bureau 13. Later killed on Babylon 5. (Played by Michael
   Beck) (206) 
Hose Jockey 
   Title of dock worker responsible for fuel line
   connections. (120) 
Hyperion 
   Earth Force heavy cruiser, commanded by Captain Ellis
   Pierce. (121) 

I
*

Icarus 
   Earth Alliance exploration vehicle. Exploded while
   investigating ruins of an ancient race out on the Rim.
   (122) 
ICE 
   See Intrusion Countermeasure Electronics. 
Ikarra 7 
   Homeworld to an advanced civilization who were killed
   by their own organic weapons over a thousand years ago.
   (101) 
Ilaros 
   Centauri goddess of luck, patron of gamblers. (111) 
Indonesian Consortium 
   Political organization within the Earth Alliance. (120) 
Ingata 
   Minbari war cruiser used to transport the body of 
   Branmer. (115) 
Internal Affairs 
   Division of Earth Alliance military charged with
   investigating military operations. Referred to as "Eyes".
   (122) 
Interstellar Network News 
   News broadcast network of the Earth Alliance. 
InterWeb 
   Computer information network used by the Earth
   Alliance. (122) 
Intrusion Countermeasure Electronics 
   Special electronic devices used to prevent tracking and
   monitoring of communications. (104) 
Io 
   One of the four Galilean moons of Jupiter, where the
   Earth transfer jumpgate and station are located. (102) 
Ipsha 
   Unspecified race. (113) 
Ironheart, Jason 
   Rogue telepath (level P10). Former Psi Corps instructor.
   Volunteered for experiments to increase Psi power.
   Former lover and teacher of Talia Winters. (Played by
   William Allen Young) (110) 
Isogi, Taro 
   Chief Executive Officer of FutureCorp and friend to 
   Talia Winters. Killed in 2259 by Abel Horn while
   meeting with Amanda Carter about Mars Colony on
   Babylon 5. (Played by James Shigeta) (206) 
Ivanov, Andrei 
   Father of Susan Ivanova. Died on Earth from medical
   complications. (Played by Robert Phalen) (104,109) 
Ivanov, Ganya 
   Brother of Susan Ivanova. Died in Earth/Minbari War
   (104,119) 
Ivanova, Sofie 
   Mother of Susan Ivanova. Discovered to be telepathic, and
   forced to undergo injections of Sleepers to disable this
   ability. Took her own life 10 years later. (Played by
   Marie Chambers) (103,122) 
Ivanova, Susan (Suzotchka) 
   Commander, Babylon 5. Replaced Laurel Takashima.
   Born August 30th, 2230 in St. Petersburg, Russian
   Consortium, Earth. Appointed to Babylon 5 in 2258 (Lt.
   Commander), promoted to Commander 2259. (Played by
   Claudia Christian) 

J
*

Jack, Officer 
   (No last name given) Security Officer and Aide to 
   Garibaldi. Shot Garibaldi when he discovered the
   assassination plot to kill the Earth Alliance president.
   Sent back to Earth under orders of President Clark.
   (Played by Macaulay Bruton) (112,122) 
Jax 
   Bartender in the Casino on Babylon 5. (122) 
Jha'dur 
   Also known as Deathwalker and Gyla Lobosh. Dilgar war
   criminal. Born in 2195 on Omelos. Specialist in
   biochemical, biogenetic, and cyberorganic weaponry.
   Infected the entire polulation of Latig 4 with Stafford's
   Plague as an experiment in 2230. Destroyed the planets 
   Tirolus, Comac 4, and Malax in 2231. Fled the sector
   after the Battle of Salos in 2232, when she was sheltered
   by the Wind Swords while she developed an Antiagathic
   drug. Held the Dilgar rank of Warmaster. Killed by a
   Vorlon cruiser. (Played by Sarah Douglas) (113) 
Jinxo 
   See Jordan, Thomas. 
Joint Chiefs of Staff 
   Committee consisting of the head of each branch of Earth
   Alliance military. 
Jordan, Thomas (a.k.a. Jinxo) 
   Grade 10 zero-gravity construction worker who worked
   on all 5 Babylon stations. He believes that he is the focus
   of a curse that if he left Babylon 5, it would be
   destroyed/disappear as the previous four did. Took over
   for Aldous Gajic in the search for the Holy Grail.
   Nicknamed Jinxo. (Played by Tom Booker) (109) 
Jovian Sunspot 
   Favorite drink of Abbut. (113) 
Jump Gate 
   See Vortex Generator. 

K
*

Ka-Tow 
   A Mutari's second, or assistant. (119) 
Kalain 
   Second in command of the Minbari war cruiser Trigati
   under Sineval, he took command after Sineval's death
   believing that the a href="#Grey-Council">Grey Council
   had betrayed them. Later died of self-inflicted poison
   while in custody on Babylon 5. (Played by Richard
   Grove) (121) 
Kalika 
   Ambassador from Abbai 4 and spokesperson for the 
   League of Non-Aligned Worlds. (Played by Robin
   Curtis) (113) 
Kat 
   Zocalo bartender. (Played by Kathryn Cressida) (120) 
Keffer, Warren 
   Starfury pilot and leader of Zeta Wing on Babylon 5.
   (Played by Robert Russler) 
Kelsey 
   Psi Cop. Assigned with Bester to capture Ironheart, and
   was later killed by Ironheart. (Played by Felicity
   Waterman) (110) 
Kemmer, Major Lianna 
   Member of Earth Alliance President's Security Staff.
   Daughter of Frank Kemmer. Blamed Garibaldi for the
   death of her father. (Played by Elaine Thomas, Young
   Lianna played by Robin Wake) (111) 
Kemmer, Frank 
   Jovian moon shuttle pilot, father of Major Lianna
   Kemmer. Friend of Garibaldi. Killed in a shuttle pad
   explosion on Europa which was intended to stop
   Garibaldi from investigating illegal activities on the
   colony. (111) 
Kha'Ri 
   Narn term for the ruling council. (113) 
Kiro, Lord 
   Descendent of the first Centauri emperor. Planned to use
   the Eye to gain the Centauri throne for himself. Taken
   captive by raiders and later killed by a Shadow ship.
   (Played by Gerrit Graham) (116) 
Knight One 
   Member of a radical Earth group trying to prove
   collusion between Earth Administration and the Minbari.
   Monitored Knight Two during attempts to discover what
   happened to Sinclair at the Battle of the Line. Killed by
   Sinclair. (Played by Judson Scott) (106) 
Knight Two 
   Member of a radical Earth group trying to prove
   collusion between Earth Administration and the Minbari.
   Entered Sinclair's mind via "cybernet" in order to
   discover what happened to him at the Battle of the Line.
   Was brain damaged when Sinclair broke free and smashed
   the equipment. (Played by Christopher Neame) (106) 
Ko'Dath 
   Ambassadorial assistant to G'Kar. Killed in an airlock
   accident. (Played by Mary Woronov) (104) 
Kolee 
   Mollari household god of passion. (108) 
Kosh 
   (Also, Kosh Naranek) Vorlon ambassador to Babylon 5.
   (Voice of Ardwight Chamberlain) 
Koslov, Rabbi Yossel 
   Russian-born rabbi and uncle of Susan Ivanova. (Played
   by Theodore Bikel) (119) 
Krantz, Major Lewis 
   Earth Alliance military officer charged with overseeing
   the completion of Babylon 4 at the time of its
   disappearance. (Played by Kent Broadhurst) (118) 
Kyle, Dr. Benjamin 
   Xenobiologist assigned to Babylon 5 in 2257. Later
   reassigned to Earth as an expert on Alien physiology by
   the Earth Alliance President. Rumors have it that the
   transfer was because of his contact with Vorlon 
   Ambassador Kosh. (Played by Johnny Sekka) (PIL) 

L
*

Ladira, Lady 
   Centauri seer and prophetess. Aunt of Lord Kiro. Fortold
   of the death of Lord Kiro by the Shadows and of the
   destruction of Babylon 5. (Played by Fredi Olster) (116) 
LaGrange 2 
   Earth Alliance base located near the Mars Colony. (122) 
Lake's Syndrome 
   Painful, uncurable disease. (117) 
Lamuda 
   The "travelling robe", which is worn by one of the 
   Children of Time before that person's ritual death. (105) 
Latig 4 
   Non-Aligned planet whose population was destroyed
   when Jha'dur infected them with Stafford's Plague as an
   experiment in 2230. (113) 
League of Non-Aligned Worlds 
   Representatives of smaller races and planets grouped
   together to express their interests to the Babylon 5
   Council. Includes the Drazi, Vree, Ipsha, and Abbai,
   among others. 
Lennier 
   Assistant to Minbari Ambassador Delenn. Member of the 
   Third Fain of Chudomo. (Played by Bill Mumy) 
Li 
   Mollari household goddess of passion. (108,117) 
Li'Dak 
   Narn Councillor and member of the Fifth Circle.
   Sponsored Na'Toth as G'Kar's assistant. Was himself
   sponsored as Councillor by Du'Rog. (108) 
Line, Battle of the 
   See Battle of the Line. 
Link 
   Personal communication device used by Earth Alliance
   personnel. Generally worn on the back of the hand. 
Llort 
   Unspecified race known for their tendency to collect
   anything just to have it. (115) 
Lobosh, Gyla 
   Pseudonym used by Jha'dur. (113) 
Lurkers 
   People, who for one reason or another (broke, criminal
   activity, etc.) hang out DownBelow on Babylon 5. 

M
*

M'Ola 
   Mother of Shon and one of the Children of Time, who
   along with her husband Tharg refused to let Dr. Franklin
   operate on their son. (Played by Tricia O'Neil) (105) 
Malax 
   Planet destroyed by Jha'dur in 2231. (113) 
Manya 
   "Mother", as used by the Children of Time. (105) 
Maray, Kiron 
   Centauri, cousin of Vir Cotto, in love with Aria Tensus,
   with whom he ran away to avoid an arranged marriage.
   Placed in the fosterage of Andillo Mollari. (Played by
   Rodney Eastman) (107) 
Marie Celeste 
   Earth Alliance transport. (116,109) 
Mariel 
   One of Londo Mollari's three wives. Divorced in 2259.
   (Played by Blair Valk) (208) 
Markab 
   Member race of the League of Non-Aligned Worlds. 
Mars Colony 
   Earth Alliance colony, marred by political upheaval. 
Mars Conglomerate 
   Monopolistic corporation on Mars Colony. (206) 
Mars Rebellion 
   Period in 2258 when the Mars Colony rebelled against 
   EarthGov, led by Free Mars. 
Marzies 
   Somewhat derogatory term used to refer to residents of
   the Mars Colony. (121) 
Mayan, Shaal 
   Minbari poet and childhood friend of Delenn. Attacked
   by Homeguard agents on Babylon 5. (Played by Nancy
   Lee Grahn) (107) 
Maynard, Jack 
   Captain of the Cortez. Sheridan's first commanding
   officer on the Moon-Mars patrol. Nicknamed "Stinky".
   (Played by Russ Tamblin) (204) 
Miller, General 
   Earth Force representative with the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   (Played by Frank Farmer) (122) 
Minbar 
   Home planet of the Minbari Federation. 
Minbari Federation 
   Political organization of the Minbari. 
Mind Burst 
   Sudden influx of telepathic information felt by untrained
   telepaths. (115) 
Mind Quake 
   Uncontrollable large-scale outbursts of telekinetic power.
   (110) 
Mitchell, Bill 
   Fighter pilot and member of Sinclair's squadron. Killed
   at the Battle of the Line. (Played by Justin Williams)
   (106) 
Mobotabwe, Derek 
   Mars Colony reporter for Interstellar Network News.
   (Played by Langdon Bensing) (120) 
Mogath 
   Mollari household god of the underworld and protector of
   front doors. (108) 
Mollari, Andillo 
   Second cousin to Londo Mollari who took Kiron Maray
   and Aria Tensus into fosterage. (107) 
Mollari, Carn 
   Nephew of Londo Mollari. Head researcher of Ragesh 3
   agricultural colony. (Played by Peter Trencher) (103) 
Mollari, Londo 
   Centauri ambassador to Babylon 5. (Played by Peter
   Jurasik) 
Morden 
   Human who spent a lot of time exploring the Rim.
   Apparently an agent for the Shadows. (Played by Ed
   Wasser) 
Morph Gas 
   Anesthetic gas used to quell a riot. (121) 
Mozechenko, Desmond (a.k.a. Deuce) 
   Smuggler working DownBelow on Babylon 5.
   Nicknamed Deuce. (Played by William Sanderson) (109) 
Mueller, Karl Edward 
   Convicted of the murder of two Lurkers and a security
   officer and sentenced to Brain Wipe. Escaped and later
   killed by Dr. Laura Rosen. (Played by Mark Rolston)
   (117) 
Muta-Do 
   The "sayer", or master of the Mutai. (Played by
   Soon-Teck Oh) (119) 
Mutai 
   A no-rules fight similar to the Kumite on Earth, stressing
   bravery. (119) 
Mutari 
   A fighter in the Mutai. (119) 

N
*

N'kai 
   Unusual word that appears in all Minbari language
   dialects, but never means the same thing. Some meanings
   include "sand", "father", and "boot". (117) 
n'grath 
   Insectoid alien known as a "fixer", or one who can supply
   black market-style items or information to anyone who
   can pay for it. 
na'ka'leen Feeder 
   Horrible creature indigenous to the Centauri Sector,
   where it is kept under heavy quarantine. It feeds on the
   neural activity of the brain associated with memory and
   personality, essentially performing a brain wipe of the
   victim. (109) 
Na'Toth 
   Diplomatic attache to Narn Ambassador G'Kar. (Played
   by Caitlin Brown/Season 1, Mary Kay Adams/Season 2) 
Naranek, Kosh 
   See Kosh. 
Narn Regime 
   Political organization of the Narn. 
Neroon 
   Minbari Alyt and member of the Star Riders clan. Aide
   and executive officer for 15 years to Branmer, he brought
   Branmer's body to Babylon 5 to honor him in front of all
   Minbari. (Played by John Vickery) (115) 
Netter, General 
   Presidential military advisor and head of the President's
   Security Staff. (Played by Rod Perry) (111) 
Ninja ZX-11 (1992) 
   Motorcycle built by Garibaldi and Lennier. 
Nolan 
   Cobra Bay worker and Homeguard supporter who was
   injured by a bomb explosion and fingered Garibaldi for
   sabotage. Died when Major Kemmer revived him for
   questioning. (Played by Jose Rosario) (111) 
Nu'Shok, Battle of 
   See Battle of Nu'Shok. 

O
*

Office of Planetary Security 
   Division of the Earth Alliance government. (121) 
Ombuds 
   Legal judicator for the Earth Alliance on Babylon 5. (109)
Omelos 
   Birthworld of Jha'dur in the Caliban Sector. (113) 
Orion 
   Planet of the Earth Alliance. 
Orwell 
   Supply officer on Babylon 5. (Played by Miguel Nunez
   Jr.) (204) 
Oxy Pills 
   Pills allowing quick recovery of strenous activity. 

P
*

pak'ma'ra 
   Members of the League of Non-Aligned Worlds. Carrion
   (raw, decaying flesh) eaters. (115) 
Patrick 
   (No last name given) Commander, Executive Officer of
   the . (Played by Daniel Beer) (204) 
Peekaboo 
   Computer password used by Garibaldi. (122) 
Petrov, Stephen 
   Lurker who was caught for petty theft at one point, and
   became an informant for Garibaldi. Killed when he
   discovered a plot to assassinate the Earth Alliance
   president. (Played by David Anthony Marshall) (112) 
Phalos 12 
   Unspecified Centauri battle led by Londo Mollari. (121) 
Phased Plasma Gun 
   Hand weapon which fires a "projectile" of plasma, or
   superheated gas. The charge dissipates rapidly when it
   strikes, so as to not cause substantial damage to hulls,
   windows, etc. The coil is made of a morbidium alloy,
   which is harder than diamond. Each PPG, except those
   used by Earth Alliance Security, have serial numbers
   etched on the coil. 
Pierce, Captain Ellis 
   Captain of the Earth Force heavy cruiser Hyperion.
   (Played by Ron Canada) (121) 
Pournelle 
   Earth Alliance Heavy Cruiser. (206) 
PPG 
   See Phased Plasma Gun. 
Project Lazarus 
   Cyber experiments conducted in the late 2230s, which
   took subjected near death and through the used of cyber
   augmentation and deep mind scans controlled the subject
   via an implanted computer. (206) 
Proxima Centauri 
   Location of Earth Alliance tachyon relay station, used for
   communications. 
Psi Cop 
   Member of the Psi Corps who monitor and control
   telepaths. All Psi Cops are level P12 telepaths. 
Psi Corps 
   Organization within the Earth Alliance who register,
   train, and monitor Telepaths. 
Purple Files 
   Files belonging to Londo Mollari which contain
   potentially damaging information for his family and the 
   Centauri Republic. (104) 

Q
*

Quadrant 37 
   Disputed sector between Narn and Centauri, where a Narn
   outpost was destroyed by the Shadows. (112) 
Quantium-40 
   Chemical compound vital to the construction of Vortex
   Generators. 
Quartermaster Corporation 
   Company name used by Colonel Ben Zayn as a front for
   his investigation of Sinclair. (122) 
Quat, Pol 
   Senator for the Indonesian Consortium. (120) 

R
*

Ragesh 3 
   Centauri agricultural colony, formerly a Narn colony,
   which was attacked by the Narn Regime in a territorial
   dispute in 2258. (103) 
Rathenn 
   Minbari acquaintence of Delenn and Draal. (120) 
Refa 
   Representative of the Centauri government. (Played by
   William Forward) (203) 
Rhoner, Dr. 
   Medical Officer on the Cortez. (204) 
Rim 
   Outer reaches of the explored galaxy. 
Ritchie Station 
   Mars station destroyed by Abel Horn, killing friends of 
   Sheridan. (206) 
Rosen, Janice 
   Daughter of Dr. Laura Rosen. (Played by Kate McNeil)
   (117) 
Rosen, Dr. Laura 
   Doctor who lost her license in 2255 when an accident
   resulted in the death of a patient. Later found a device
   bought from a trader originally used asa means of
   corporal punishment by draining life energy and feeing it
   to others, but was able to use it to heal people. She used it
   to kill Karl Mueller in self-defense and in turn cured
   herself of Lake's Syndrome. (Played by June Lockhart)
   (117) 
Runningdear, Miriam 
   Owner of a shop on Red 26 who was going to testify
   against Deuce but became a victim of a Feeder. (Played by
   Linda Lodge) (109) 
Rush Act 
   Earth law enabling the Senate to empower someone to
   end an illegal strike using any means necessary, usually by
   force. (114) 
Ruterian 
   Major Centauri god. There is a statue of Ruterian in the
   Centauri cultural center on Babylon 5. (114) 

S
*

San Diego 
   Earth city destroyed by the first ever act of nuclear
   terrorism. It is estimated that it will not be inhabitable
   again until the mid 2300s. 
Sakai, Catherine 
   Planetary scout, owner and pilot of the scout ship 
   Skydancer. (Played by Julia Nickson) 
Salos, Battle of 
   See Battle of Salos. 
San Diego 
   Earth city destroyed in a nuclear detonation by a terrorist
   group. (103) 
Santiago, Luis 
   President of the Earth Alliance. Defeated Marie Crane in
   the elections of 2258 with promises of better relations
   with the Mars Colony and preserving Earth cultures in the
   face of alien influences. Killed on January 1st, 2259 when
   Earth Force 1 exploded, apparently as part of an
   assassination. (103,111,112) 
Satai 
   Honorific title of a member of the Grey Council. (102) 
Sechli Sakarr 
   Minbari for "Soul Sick". (208) 
Sha'Toth 
   Father of Na'Toth. Follower of G'Lan. (108) 
Shadows 
   An ancient and very powerful legendary race which
   nearly ruled known space thousands of years ago, but
   were pushed back to their homeworld of Z'ha'dum on the 
   Rim and subsequently disappeared, until recently. 
Shai Alyt 
   Minbari ship captain. (115) 
Shak Tot 
   Minbari term for a Soul Hunter. (102) 
Shankar 
   Narn "blood oath". (113) 
Shar, Mila 
   Head of agricultural litigation of Abbai 4. (Played by
   Diane Adair) (107) 
Sheridan, Anna 
   Wife of Captain John Sheridan and long-time friend of 
   Elizabeth Sheridan. Died in 2256 while as science officer
   on the Icarus when the ship exploded while investigating
   the ruins of an ancient race out on the Rim. (Played by
   Beth Toussaint) (122) 
Sheridan, Elizabeth 
   Sister of Captain John Sheridan and long-time friend of 
   Anna Sheridan. (Played by Beverly Leech) (122) 
Sheridan, John, Captain 
   Appointed Commander, Babylon 5, January 9th, 2259 by 
   President Clark to replace Sinclair. Former captain of the 
   Earth Alliance cruiser Agamemnon, spent the previous
   three years on deep space patrol. He is the only Earth
   Alliance commander to have one a battle against the
   Minbari during the War, by mining the asteroid belt
   between Mars and Jupiter, destroying the Minbari
   flagship Black Star and several other ships. The Minbari
   call him "StarKiller", and feel the battle was won by him
   dishonorably. (Played by Bruce Boxleitner) 
Sho-Rin 
   The title of the current champion of the Mutai. (119) 
Shon 
   Son of M'Ola and Tharg, who suffered from congestive
   blockage of the air bladder. Later killed by parents.
   (Played by Jonathan Charles Kaplan) (105) 
Sigma 957 
   Planet in a disputed sector of space, which shows signs of
   a signficant amount of Duridium, but was left
   undeveloped due to strange occurances near there. (110) 
Sinclair, Jeffrey David, Commander 
   Commander, Babylon 5 and Earth Alliance Ambassador.
   The only survivor of his squadron at the Battle of the Line,
   he has no memory of what took place between when he
   tried to ram a Minbari cruiser and when he awoke in his
   fighter 24 hours later. Later discovered to have been
   captured by the Minbari, tortured and scanned. Born on 
   Mars Colony, and spent three years training as a Jesuit
   before joining Earth Force. Reassigned as Ambassador to
   the Minbari homeworld in 2259. (Played by Michael
   O'Hare) 
Sineval 
   Minbari warrior and commander of the war cruiser 
   Trigati who committed suicide rather than surrender at
   the Battle of the Line. (115,121) 
Skydancer 
   Planetary scout vessel owned by Catherine Sakai. (110) 
Slappers 
   Skin tabs used to administer drugs, usually applied to the
   back of the wrist. (119) 
Slaver Glove 
   Powered weapon used by slave owners to control slaves.
   (206) 
Sleepers 
   Drug used to supress psychic abilities. (122) 
Slitch 
   Unspecified animal native to Orion. (122) 
Smith, Walker 
   Former SportCorp boxer who, with the help of Caliban
   became the first human to fight in the Mutai. (Played by
   Greg McKinney) (119) 
Solis Planum 
   Location on Mars. (120) 
Soul Hunter 
   Immortal humanoids drawn towards the death of sentient
   beings to "save" their souls at the moment of death. At
   least one has visited Earth in the past and may be the
   cause of some myths. Known to the Minbari as Shak Tot.
   (Played by W. Morgan Sheppard and John Snyder) (102) 
Space 
   (v) The act of placing someone unprotected in open space.
   Used as a punishment by the Earth Alliance only when a
   subject is convicted of treason or insurrection. (117) 
Spoo 
   Delicacy of unknown origin. (103) 
SportCorp 
   Earth corporation which promotes (and possibly
   "controls") sporting events. (119) 
Stafford's Plague 
   Unspecified virulent disease. Used by Jha'dur for an
   experiment on Latig 4, in which the whole colony was
   infected and died. (113,115) 
Starfury 
   Standard Earth Alliance non-atmospheric fighter, which
   comes in several configurations. The version used on
   Babylon 5 is the SA-23E Mitchell-Hyundyne Starfury. 
Star Laces 
   Bioluminescent flowers native to the planet Davo. (104) 
Star Riders 
   One of the clans of the Minbari warrior caste. (115) 
StarKiller 
   Minbari name given to Sheridan after the destruction of
   the Black Star. (121) 
Station Phobos 
   Station located on the largest of Mars' two moons. (122) 
Stims 
   Stimulants (drugs). (117) 
Stoner, Matthew 
   Former telepath and husband to Talia Winters, supposedly
   left Psi Corps when he "lost" his telepathic powers, when
   apparently he was transformed into an empath. (Played by
   Keith Szarabajka) (208) 
SunHawk 
   Drazi destroyer-class ship with an unspecified drive
   system. (113) 
Sykes, Carolyn 
   Owner and pilot of the trading vessel Ulysses.
   Acquaintance of Sinclair. (Played by Blaire Baron) (PIL) 
Syria Planum 
   Location on Mars, where the Psi Corps has a secret
   intellegence and training facility. (120) 

T
*

T'Bar 
   Narn Councillor, First Circle. (116) 
Takarn 
   Captain of the outcast vessel trying to reclaim Epsilon 3.
   (Played by Michelan Sisti) (121) 
Takashima, Laurel 
   Vice-Commander, Babylon 5. Later transferred and
   replaced by Susan Ivanova. Worked Mars Colony
   Security after graduating from the academy. (Played by
   Tamlyn Tomita) (PIL) 
Talquith 
   Narn cargo ship carrying a G'Quan Eth plant for 
   Ambassador G'Kar, which was damaged when a cargo
   bay computer malfunctioned and the pilot panicked. (114)
Taree 
   Narn alcoholic drink. (111) 
Tasaki, Dr. 
   Geologist and head of geology team that investigated
   seismic activity on Epsilon 3. (Played by Jim Ishida) (120)
Technomage 
   A "magician" of sorts, who uses science to achieve the
   effects of magic. (203) 
Teela 
   Minbari "home songs" (107) 
Tensus, Aria 
   Centauri, in love with Kiron Maray with whom she ran
   away to avoid an arranged marriage. Placed in the
   fosterage of Andillo Mollari. (Played by Danica
   McKellar) (107) 
Teronn 
   Minbari living on Babylon 5. (Plated by Sandey Grinn)
   (204) 
Thalitene 
   Planet mentioned by Tharg, possibly the homeworld of
   the Children of Time. (105) 
Tharg 
   Father of Shon and one of the Children of Time, who
   along with his wife M'Ola refused to let Dr. Franklin
   operate on their son. (Played by Stephen Lee) (105) 
Thenta Makur 
   Narn Assassin's Guild. Traditionally leave a black flower
   with the intended victim before striking. (108) 
Ti Corval 
   Leader of the Tikar. (sp) (206) 
Tigris 
   The star system in which Babylon 5 is located. 
Tikar 
   Alien race first encountered by Sheridan. (sp) (206) 
Timov 
   One of Londo Mollari's three wives, the only one he kept
   when the Emperor granted him a divorce. (Played by Jane
   Carr) (208) 
Tirolus 
   Planet destroyed by Jha'dur in 2231. (113) 
Tokati 
   Alien race on Babylon 5. (204) 
Topside 
   The opposite of DownBelow, or the "standard" parts of
   Babylon 5. (111) 
Torg's Syndrome 
   Unspecified disease which killed Garibaldi's father. (206)
Trakis 
   Alien who attempted to steal Londo Mollari's Purple
   Files in order to blackmail him. (Played by Clive Revill)
   (104) 
Treel 
   Centauri fish, eaten as a delicacy. (119) 
Trigati 
   Minbari War Cruiser commanded by Sineval during the 
   Earth/Minbari-War, which went rogue after Sineval's
   death under command of Kalain. (121) 
Triluminary 
   Minbari device used for various purposes. There are only
   three. (122,112) 
Tu'Pari 
   Narn assassin and member of the Thenta Makur,
   commissioned by Councillor Du'Rog to kill Ambassador
   G'Kar. (Played by Thomas Kopache) (108) 
Tular 
   Ikarran researcher whose thought patterns were recorded
   in the bioweapon from Ikarra 7. (101) 
Tyree, Adira 
   Centauri dancer indentured to Trakis and used to seduce 
   Londo Mollari to gain access to his Purple Files for
   blackmail purposes. (Played by Fabiana Udenio) (104) 

U
*

Ulysses 
   Trading vessel owned by Carolyn Sykes. (PIL) 

V
*

Varn 
   Ancient guardian of Epsilon 3, replaced by Draal. (Played
   by Curt Lowens) (120,121) 
Varner, Del 
   Human, born on Earth on June 27th, 2219. Wanted by the 
   Earth Alliance for smuggling illegal technology. Brought
   a Changeling Net to Babylon 5 as part of an assassination
   attempt on Ambassador Kosh. Killed by a Minbari
   assassin. (Played by John Fleck) (PIL) 
Vibe Showers 
   Shower units which instead of using water use sonics and
   anti-bacterial lighting. (121) 
Vicor 
   From the 20th century Earth term "VCR", a living,
   cyberorganic recorder, capable of recording almost
   anything, including thought patterns. (113) 
Valen 
   Minbari leader who created the first Grey Council. (118) 
Vortex Generator 
   A large device which creates an entry to or exit from
   hyperspace so that ships which cannot afford to carry
   their own jump point generators can benefit from
   hyperspace travel. Only very large ships carry their own
   generators, and use them only when a local Vortex
   Generator is unavailable. Also called a Jump Gate. 
Vree 
   Unspecified alien race, apparently noted for
   "questionable" eating habits. Vree ships have a saucer
   shape. (111) 

W
*

Welch, Lou 
   Security officer on Babylon 5. (Played by David J.
   Crowley) 
Wellington 
   One of the Ombuds on Babylon 5. (Played by Jim Norton)
   (109,117) 
Wind Swords 
   Fiercest of the Minbari warrior castes. Sheltered Jha'dur
   while she produced weapons for them and developed her 
   Antiagathic drug. (113) 
Winters, Talia 
   Psi Corps level P5 telepath. Assigned to Babylon 5 in
   2258. Replaced Lyta Alexander. (Played by Andrea
   Thompson) 

X
*

Xon 
   A second intelligent species to develop on Centauri Prime,
   who were at constant war with the Centauri until the Xon
   were wiped out. (108) 

Y
*

Yokdri 
   Fried tree worm, eaten as a delicacy. (119) 

Z
*

Z'ha'dum 
   Homeworld of the Shadows, located on the Rim. (122) 
Zathras 
   Alien of unknown origin who mysteriously appeared on 
   Babylon 4 to aid in stealing the station. (Played by Tim
   Choate) (118) 
Zayn, Colonel Ari Ben 
   See Ben Zayn, Colonel Ari. 
Zento, Orin 
   Labor negotiator for the Earth Senate who called for the
   invocation of the Rush Act to end the Docker's Guild
   strike on Babylon 5. (Played by John Snyder) (114) 
Zimmerman, Arnold 
   One of the Ombuds on Babylon 5. (109) 
Zocalo 
   "Open-air" marketplace on Babylon 5. 
Zoog 
   Centauri god. (112) 



Episode List
============

Listed are the names and production numbers of Babylon 5
episodes. Episodes are listed in chronological order (which does
not match production order).

Pilot movie
+++++++++++

   The Gathering (PIL) 

First season: Signs and Portents
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

   Midnight on the Firing Line (103) 
   Soul Hunter (102) 
   Born to the Purple (104) 
   Infection (101) 
   The Parliament of Dreams (108) 
   Mind War (110) 
   The War Prayer (107) 
   And the Sky Full of Stars (106) 
   Deathwalker (113) 
   Believers (105) 
   Survivors (111) 
   By Any Means Necessary (114) 
   Signs and Portents (116) 
   TKO (119) 
   Grail (109) 
   Eyes (122) 
   Legacies (115) 
   A Voice in the Wilderness, Part 1 (120) 
   A Voice in the Wilderness, Part 2 (121) 
   Babylon Squared (118) 
   The Quality of Mercy (117) 
   Chrysalis (112) 

Second season: The Coming of Shadows
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

   Points of Departure (201) 
   Revelations (202) 
   The Geometry of Shadows (203) 
   A Distant Star (204) 
   The Long Dark (205) 
   A Spider in the Web (206) 
   Soul Mates (208) 
   A Race Through Dark Places (207) 
   The Coming of Shadows (209) 

