This interview was printed in The Zocalo, an online Babylon 5 newsletter.


<*><*><*><*><*>
Pay No Attention To That Man Behind The Curtain
By Chuck Becker (Necromancer@pol.org)
 <*><*><*><*><*>

I am the great and powerful Oz!!!  Remember that line from the Wizard Of
Oz???  Well in this case it's the great and powerful Kosh.  This week we
get to be Toto and pull the man out from behind the curtain.  I got a
chance to chat with the man behind the helmet or underneath it as it were.
Jeffrey Willerth.  He gives us a glimpse inside the Kosh suit and behind
the scenes on Babylon 5.  I just want to say thanks to Jeffrey for taking
the time to chat with us and without further ado.....

Heeeeeeerrrrree's Kosh!!!

C.B.  How did you get the part?  Audition??

J.W.  I down right begged for the part.  I had reason to believe the spot
      might become available.  With a little tactical planning and some
      Vorlon technology, I was in the right place at the right time to ask
      the right person the right question.  That got me the chance to try
      on the helmet, which happens to be very small and very inflexible.
      Needless to say, the glass slipper fit.

C.B.  What is your background?  <life and acting>

J.W.  I have a degree in Broadcast Management and started in radio as a
      disk jockey.  I spent several years in media relations for the
      motorsport industry.  I'm more of a behind the camera kinda guy, but
      remain comfortable in the spotlight.  Mostly lived on the east coast,
      and came to California about seven years ago.

C.B.  Did you know what you were auditioning for?

J.W.  You bet!  It was my only real chance at a role on a TV series.  I
      didn't (and don't) see myself as an actor destined for greatness.

      Kosh will be my best gig ever.  Usually, when I see something I want,
      I do get it.

C.B.  How much background did Joe give you for the character?

J.W.  You think Kosh IS cryptic???  Perhaps he does it to me on purpose,
      but he really lets me go with it.  Only request was to be smooth and
      glide along.  After my first few episodes, (the silence was killing
      me) I asked him if I was doing anything wrong.  "You'd know if we saw
      anything wrong"!  There have been a few times when I wasn't sure if I
      was interpreting the script correctly (the ol' what you do now
      affects the future stuff), and JMS has provided a solid direction.

C.B.  Do you operate all the parts of the suit?  Iris on the helmet?
      Helmet?  Lights/translator?

J.W.  I get to operate the translator (voice) lights.  One of the
      excellent folks from Optic Nerve will operate those nipple thingies
      as well as the iris.  We often discuss with the director how the
      scene will play and how we collectively portray Kosh.

C.B.  Kosh never seems to walk; he seems to glide.  How is Kosh's gliding
      walk done?

J.W.  It is actually quite simple.  As if on a tight rope, I walk by
      placing one foot in front of the other.  This minimizes the weight
      transfer from right leg to left leg.  Try it!  Then try it with
      electrical wires, batteries and servos dangling from your body.  And
      go ahead and strap 35 lbs of fibreglass and composites to your collar
      bone.  Then try it inside a sauna.  Now let's switch off the lights
      and basically stop breathing.  Turning is fun.  I twist my legs
      toward my final direction, but face another way.  Then rotate on my
      heels till it stops feeling good and hope that I don't hit anything.
      I really can't see anything.

C.B.  Is it unbearably hot inside there?

J.W.  Funny thing is, while I'm all inside, I just get into it and try to
      do the job at hand.  It's only when they pull the helmet off me, I
      see the looks of horror and pity from the crew!  Ten people offer me
      a drink of water, all at once.  After I climb out, and start to walk
      around is when I realize my underwear is soaked with sweat.  Oh, THIS
      is Hollywood!

C.B.  What is it like being in the Kosh suit?

J.W.  If I wrote 1,000 words to answer this question, it still wouldn't
      be accurate.  It is a very, very different experience.  I'd like to
      think it helps me get into character.  It's not like Kosh is anyone
      I've ever met before, I don't have many role models to work with
      here!  The suit, Kosh and I become one.  (whoa!)

C.B.  How do you sync up the audio?  Do you listen to tape of Ardwright
      while you act the scene or do you run the lines and then dub
      Ardwright in after?

J.W.  I get the first crack at the dialog.  I act the scene with the
      other actors both on and off camera.  Ardwight and the folks from our
      post production facilities do the voice you hear.

C.B.  How long does it take to suit up?

J.W.  Unlike most all the other aliens on B5 who need hours of work, I can
      be in and out of the suit in about five minutes.  However, once I'm
      in, I like to stay there until I'm done for the day.

C.B.  Can you give us a description of the character Kosh?

J.W.  This is not meant to be a "cheesy" answer, but I'm am not qualified
      to describe Kosh.  My interpretations have been that Kosh knows more
      than we can fathom, and has endless patience.  The younger races are
      something like pet goldfish in a bowl, as Kosh looks in on us for
      awhile.  But, this is really a JMS question.

C.B.  Do you find yourself starting to talk like Kosh? ;->{)

J.W. "yes"

      <C.B. Boy did I set him up there eh?>

C.B.  What is you favorite Kosh line?

J.W.  Jeez, that's not fair.  Kosh has so few lines, but says so much
      each time.  Perhaps some of the favorites would be, of course: "If
      you go to Z'ha'Dum, you will die" - "One moment of perfect beauty" -
      "Sheridan... learn!" - and the entire dialog from Interludes and
      Examinations.

C.B.  What is the hardest part of your job?

J.W.  The hours.  I choose to live an hour away from work, which means I
      tack on two hours of driving to a long day of filming.

C.B.  Kosh is at least 6'5.  How tall are you with suit on and how tall
      are you?

J.W.  Well, I'm only 6' tall.  The suit really is where the size comes
      from.  It sure is a top-heavy costume!

C.B.  The scene with Sheridan in Interludes and Examinations was great.
      How was that to act and how did you do it?  Give us the whole story,
      timing, motivation, did it feel great to get in Sheridan's face in
      anger?

J.W.  That day was 1/19/96.  One of my most memorable days.  It was just
      Bruce and me all day, yelling at each other.  We really yelled,
      insulted, pushed each other around.  We shot all the scenes over and
      over and over and over....Jesus Trevino worked us into a frenzy and
      (the whole thing was shot out of sequence) we got tired and
      delirious, as if we had been fighting all day.  It really comes
      through in Bruce's excellent performance.  JMS made the script work.
      John Flinn III, John Smith, JW and the crew did a great job of
      lighting the place.  I was blown away when I saw the show air, with
      all the effects and Christopher Franke's magical touch.  I'm proud to
      just have been a small part of the entire effort.  Oh yes, and it WAS
      fun to have permission to get into Bruce's face.  An opportunity that
      probably won't happen again.  He's bigger than me!

C.B.  Hate to ask this but I must..... any funny bloopers or gaffs we
      could know about?  <If he says, `YES'!!!  Let's all get him!>

J.W.  Koshster the Rodster has hit a few walls, kicked a few lights and
      bumped his bumps a few times.  Perhaps the funniest time was during
      the filming of "Fall of Night" #222.  In the garden, I was answering
      some interview questions and mentioned I thought Kosh looked like a
      toilet seat with a shower curtain attached.  The crew took this to
      heart and adorned me with one of those sanitary paper seat covers in
      public restrooms.  Then came the rolls of toilet paper, and facial
      tissues...etc.  Unable to reach any of my ornaments, I must have
      looked like the poster boy for bathroom hygiene!

C.B.  Do you get to use the suit on Halloween? ;->{)

J.W.  Wouldn't that be cool!?!?  Kosh, like a true Vorlon, slips out of
      his Optic Nerve lock up, does his scene, and slips back in quickly.
      Don't expect any trick or treating soon.  And beware of imitations!
      JMS hinted we might do a convention sometime.  I mean, we ALL have to
      come out of the closet, right?

C.B.  Jeffrey, if you can think of anything to add, please do.

J.W.  Well, not really a question asked:  being a professional schmoozer,
      I just want thank the producers, B5 crew, cast and my Optic Kosh
      mates, for making this a part of my life.  It is more fun than a
      human should have.  Mostly thanks to all the viewers that watch...
      and watch so closely.  We couldn't do it without you.

Boy, was this interview a blast to do.  You'll notice I didn't ask anything
about upcoming episodes.  I was chomping at the bit to do so but I promised
I wouldn't.  I want to thank Jeffrey Willerth for taking the time and for
giving more than one word answers.  Yes??????  I also want to thank the
staff for all their help in pulling this whole interview together.  If you
have questions or comments write to me at Necromancer@pol.org or the LTTS
section of the N.L. To subscribe to The Zocalo newsletter, send an email
message to: katana@indirect.com.  Include your first name, the address you
want the newsletter sent to if it is not the one you are writing from, and the
state (US), province (Canada), or country (outside the US or Canada) you
live in.  The Zocalo always has been a network of fans.  Join the network
subscribe and send us news, features, and any information you'd like
to share with other B5 fans!  Be seeing ya!


