***************
SPECULATING LYTA
***************

Pat Tallman reveals much regarding her B5 character, her background and
herself.

As told to The Zocalo's Features editor, JC WIlliamson (WiseGuise@AOL.com)


Z:  When you did "The Gathering," the B5 universe was all new.  Did you get
details in advance re: Lyta's background, personality, motivations, what
PsiCorps was all about?  Did you develop your own character profile, beyond
what the script specified?  (For example, Lyta was very spirited and
expressive.  Was that your own spin on her, or was that requested?)

PT:  Yes, the B5 universe was all new.  The best thing about B5 is Joe
Straczynski.  His talent and enthusiasim made B5 a pleasure.  He was the very
first thing in the B5 realm that I met.  As we went through the casting
prosess, and finally the shoot, he would share his universe.  I then filled
in Lyta's personality.  Joe told me her education and how the Psi Corps came
to be, then I made choices to determine her persona.  Such as:  Joe said that
young "Talent" would be taken from home and the Corps would nurture the
talent and assign an older Psi Corps Talent to be a surrogate parent.  To me,
Lyta seemed to be a loner, and lonely, so I chose that Lyta's surrogate
didn't bond to her well, was jealous of her talent, and left Lyta on her own
alot.  She is socially a bit stunted, but deep inside a loving soul.  That's
how the doctor and Tamlin in the pilot are able to convince Lyta to go
against her programing to save Kosh.  Also that shows you how strong Lyta is.
 That strength was needed for Lyta to get into Vorlon space and survive.
 That's why they chose her.  Lyta and I share the quality you asked about,
the expressiveness.  Joe saw that in "Night of the Living Dead" and wanted me
for Lyta.

Z:  The "privacy" scene between Lyta and G'Kar, in "The Gathering," is a B5
classic.  While we don't actually know how she finally responded to him,
we're left with the definite impression that she turned his proposal down.
 Still, she seemed more astonished than disinterested (and now they both have
gills!)  Other Earthgrrrls do seem to like that Narn and his pleasure
threshold promises.   So in *your* opinion, was she perhaps tempted?

PT:  *Pat* is fascinated with G'Kar, so I guess Lyta is too.  I think she was
repulsed at first at the idea of having sex to make an offspring just for the
genes.  But when Andreas added his flirtation at the end, i.e. Pleasure
Threshold, I think the picture in her mind left her speechless!  I am in love
with Andreas, so I have always hoped there would be some kind of relationship
with him.  While I was pregnant, I had the idea to go to the set, appear in
G'Kar's quarters and say "G'Kar, we gotta talk."  Just for the sight gag!
 But I never seemed to have the time.

Z:  The fact that Lyta is the only Human to have scanned a Vorlon seemed too
powerful to waste.  When the series proceeded without Lyta, did you expect
her to return, later in the storyline?

PT:  I never expected Lyta to return, I couldn't alow myself to hope. I am
thrilled to have the chance to keep Lyta alive, and explore B5.  I was so
pleased with the " Divided Loyalties" script.  What a return!

Z:  When you saw the script for "Divided Loyalties," did her changes surprise
you?

PT:  Her development was even more than I had hoped for.   I think Lyta
trusted Kosh.  She saw God, she threw herself into his service, with out
regard for what might happen to her.  She knows Kosh knows what is in her
heart.  He let her know there was a place for her.  She is to be his soldier,
and thats all she cares about.

Z:  After "Divided Loyalties," what did you suppose SHE thought might happen
to her, should she finally be admitted into Vorlon Space?  (What *she* thinks
might not be what JMS thinks ;-)

PT:  Joe might not agree with all this, but it doesn't matter really. He
writes the scripts!  Lyta was called by Kosh, she hears him everynight, hears
his song, and that's what keeps her strong and sane.  The "sane" part
Garabaldi might not agree with, but he hasn't been inside a Vorlon!

Z:  Now that we've seen "Passing Through Gesthemene" ... and without trying
to press you for spoilers .... was Lyta playing with Londo's head or can she
really plant dreams and images in others' minds?  Could she always do that,
or is this a new, Vorlonesque skill?

PT:  Yes , Lyta can really mess with Londo's mind. She is an expanded talent.
 I think Lyta thinks she is in full command of her choices.

Z:  Do *you* think Lyta is in full command of her choices?  Kosh and the
Vorlons are using her as a soldier, presumably for the side of light -- but
are they, perhaps, manipulating her at a deeper, subconscious level?

PT:  I don't think at this point she would be upset if the Vorlons didn't
tell her every thing.  She believes in the biggness of their missions.  I
don't know (wouldn't even hazzard to guess ) how deep this goes.  They could
be doing any number of things to her.  As we have discussed in the make-up
trailor, Lyta could be a Vorlon sex toy for all I know.

Z:   That last scene in PTG !  When Lyta and Kosh connect ....

PT:  I am not exactly sure what goes on between Kosh and Lyta, but I had
thought it more a Master and Grasshopper relationship than sexual.  Actually,
When you totally trust, worship and adore someone, that can get pretty sexy
can't it?

Z:  For "Divided loyalties," you returned to a cast with few familar faces.
  Did that affect the way you got back into your character?  What was it like
to come onto the presumably well-entrenched set of a two-year-old series?

PT:  I felt welcomed and supported by the cast.  They are terrific people and
I think they were a bit concerned for my ease.  They made the transition a
pleasure.  Lyta's a loner anyway!  I'd love to be a part of a "family."
 Maybe someday!

Z:  How would you characterize the different directing styles on "The
Gathering" and  "Divided Loyalties?"   They are quite different from a
viewing perspective -- were they different from your perspective as an actor?


PT:  I think I like the speed of working on T.V. It's tough!  But you can get
into a rythum with it.  I still have yet to feel comfortable at it!  We shot
the pilot at top speed too.

Z:  One was essentially a movie and the other episodic television.  Did that
make a difference in the way you and the others worked?

PT:  The difference was that on the pilot, we had to work out the bugs as we
went.  We had to get used to each other, find a routine that worked.  Just as
we were about to really hone it to an art, we finished!   The series IS honed
to an art.  They are all so used to working with each other, and know the
routine, they have to find ways to break it!  Or go crazy!

Z:   Your athleticism came through nicely in "The Gathering" -- is stunt work
a big part of your business?  Is that how you started in Hollywood, or where
you an actress first -- or both?

PT:  I was an actress before I became a stunt woman. I have been classicaly
trained.  Theater is my first love.  While I was pregnant, since I couldnt do
stunts, I performed in 2 plays. The second one was written for us.  I make my
living doing stunts.  Some of the bigger pictures I had the good fortune to
be in were; Jurrassic Park ( Laura Dern's stunt double), Speed, Forrest Gump,
The Flintstones, Addams Family Values, Cobb ( which I also coordinated a
sequence), and Generations.  I was 5 months pregnant by the time we finished
Generations.

Z:  I think we recently saw you, as an ensign, getting a fatal zapping in a
recent DS9 episode!   You've been Nana Visitor's stunt-double on "Star Trek:
DS9."  Have you done many Trek turns?  Or other myriad Science Fiction roles?


PT:  I have worked quite a bit on The Next Generation, DS9, and Voyager.
 Sometimes I have a little part and then blow up, or get shot, or fall or
something!  I've been every alien there is, I think!

Z:  Has your new motherhood changed your career ambitions or limited your
opportunities and working schedule?  Do shows make accommodations for you as
a mother?

PT:  I have a one year old son, Julian, who is  my life.  I have really been
out of the loop now for awhile so I could be home with him.  I'm still breast
feeding,  so I'm a little more "zaftig" than usual, and that makes squeezing
into a Star Fleet uniform a bit difficult.  But I refuse to compromise
mothering because of a job.  B5 is much easier to do than other shows for a
couple of reasons.  Bruce, Jerry & Andrea and Andreas are all parents, and so
are several others!  So I have a lot of understanding around me.  Claudia
loves kids, our hair and make-up women are wonderful and always offer to
help, ect! Plus, when you are an actor, you are treated better, and have more
leaway than just being stunts.  So if I wanted to have my babysitter in my
trailor no one would mind, whereas I couldn't do that as a stuntwoman.  I'm
faced with the situation of now needing to make sure I have regular work, so
I'll be doing more stunts in1996.

Z:  Since you subscribe to "The Zocalo," we assume you are a fellow B5 fan
<G>  Are you a fan of SciFi, beyond B5 and Trek?

PT:  I have always loved Science fiction and fantasy.  I read alot. It's
harder now with a baby, but I manage.  And I'm an X-Files squid.  (I'm like
the Lone Gunmen: I think everyone is suspect!)  I would very much like to
know what the fans think ... I really am interested!

Z:  Trust us ... The B5ers will let you know <G>  We at "The Zocalo" thank
you especially, Pat!

END
