
B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5
B5                                  B5
B5   Babylon 5 (UK) Episode Guide   B5
B5        -=>  SEASON 3  <=-        B5
B5                                  B5
B5    Guide Date : November 1996    B5
B5                                  B5
B5     Compiled By : Edwin Yau      B5
B5                                  B5
B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5


     CONTENTS (* = additions/changes)

   * [1]  README
     [2]  SEASON 3 CREDITS
     [3]  EPISODE GUIDE
          [3.1]  NARRATIONS
          [3.2]  SEASON 3
     [4]  U.K. AIR DATES & RATINGS
     [5]  SEASON 3 UK EDITS
     [6]  AND FINALLY...

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]  README
===========

Welcome to the Babylon 5 (UK) episode guide!  Don't be put off by the fact
that it has a UK bias though as most of the information (i.e. the actual
episode guide part and list of edits) is relevant to whatever country you
are in!

This guide is actually a portion of a much larger guide which I have split
up due to the growing size of the guide.  To download other seasons look
for the following files:-

        b5uk_s1.txt     season 1 guide
        b5uk_s2.txt     season 2 guide
        b5uk_s3.txt     season 3 guide
        b5uk_s4.txt     season 4 guide
        b5uk_s5.txt     season 5 guide

This guide is Copyright (C) November 1996 by Edwin Yau.  It may be
redistributed freely in its complete form, but may not be reproduced in
any form whatsoever if any monies is to be made from it.  No attempt has
been made to supersede any rights held by Warner Bros. TV, Babylonian
Productions Inc., Channel 4 TV, TNT, PTEN or any other copyright holders.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[2]  SEASON 3 CREDITS
=====================

STARRING:
     Bruce Boxleitner    as   Captain John Sheridan
     Claudia Christian   as   Commander Susan Ivanova
     Jerry Doyle         as   Security Chief Michael Garibaldi
     Mira Furlan         as   Delenn
     Richard Biggs       as   Dr. Stephen Franklin
     Bill Mumy           as   Lennier
     Jason Carter        as   Marcus Cole
     Stephen Furst       as   Vir Cotto
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allen
     Peter Jurasik       as   Londo Mollari
     Andreas Katsulas    as   G'Kar

CREATED BY..............: J. Michael Straczynski
PRODUCTION DESIGNER.....: John Iacovelli
DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY.: John C. Flinn III
CONCEPTUAL CONSULTANT...: Harlan Ellison
PRODUCED BY.............: John Copeland
EXECUTIVE PRODUCERS.....: Douglas Netter
                          J. Michael Straczynski
ASSOCIATE PRODUCER......: George Johnsen
MUSIC BY................: Christopher Franke
CASTING BY..............: Fern Champion, C.S.A.
                          Mark Paladini, C.S.A.
COSTUME DESIGNER........: Ann Brucie Aling
VISUAL EFFECTS BY.......: Ron Thornton

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[3]  EPISODE GUIDE
==================

-------------------------------------
[3.1]  OPENING AND CLOSING NARRATIONS
-------------------------------------

All narrations are opening unless otherwise stated.

------------------
SEASON 3 NARRATION
------------------

     "The Babylon Project was our  last, best hope for peace.  It failed.
     But, in the Year of the Shadow War, it became something greater: our
     last,  best  hope  for...  victory.  The  year  is 2260.  The place:
     Babylon 5."

                                             - Commander Susan Ivanova

---------------------------------
SEASON 3 FINALE CLOSING NARRATION
---------------------------------

     "It was  the end of  the Earth  year 2260 - and the  war had  paused
     suddenly  and  unexpectedly.  All around us  it was if  the universe
     were holding its breath - waiting.

     "All  of life  can be  broken  down  into moments  of transition, or
     moments of revelation.  Is that the feeling of both?

     "G'Quan wrote  'There is a  greater darkness than  the one we fight.
     It is the darkness of the soul that has lost its way.'

     "The war we fight  is not against  powers and  principalities, it is
     against chaos...  and despair.  Greater than  the death  of flesh is
     the death of hope - the death  of dreams.  Against this peril we can
     never surrender.

     The future is all around us,  waiting in moments of transition to be
     born  in moments  of  revelation.  No one  knows the  shape of  that
     future, or  where it will  take us.  We know  only that it is always
     born in pain."

                                             - G'Kar
                                               "Z'ha'dum"

------------------------------------
[3.2]  SEASON 3 - POINT OF NO RETURN
------------------------------------

C01) "Matters of Honor"

     Directed by: Kevin G. Cremin
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

DELENN: "There are beings in the universe billions of years older than any
        of our races.  They walked among the stars like giants, vast yet
        timeless.  They created great empires, taught the new races,
        explored beyond the Rim... The oldest of the Ancients are the
        Shadows.  We have no other name for them..."

Londo decides it is time to sever his relationship with Morden since the
Narn-Centauri war has ended.  Morden and his associates agree to this...
with certain conditions.  A Ranger arrives asking for Sheridan's help in
stopping a blockade and introduces the crew to the White Star, a new ship
to help them in the battle against the Shadows.  And an EarthForce
intelligence agent arrives to conduct an inquiry on how much the crew and
the ambassadors know about the Shadows.

     Tucker Smallwood    as   David Endawi
     Ed Wasser           as   Morden
     Nils Allen Stewart  as   Large Man
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Drazi Pilot
     Kitty Swink         as   Senator
     Andrew Walker       as   Psi Cop

C02) "Convictions"

     Directed by: Michael Vejar
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

G'KAR: "Not many fishes left in the sea.  Not many fishes, just Londo and
       me."

As a series of bombings rock B5, Ivanova calls on some unusual monks with
even more unusual skills to help track down the dangerous bomber who
threatens to destroy the whole station.  Lennier, risking his life to save
Londo from one such bombing, ends up in a coma, and soon after another
explosion Londo finds himself trapped inside a transport tube with his
nemesis, G'Kar, with their oxygen supply dwindling, much to G'Kar's
delight!

     Patrick Kilpatrick  as   Robert Carlson
     Louis Turenne       as   Brother Theo
     Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa
                         as   Morishi
     John Flinn          as   Obnoxious Man
     Rick Johnson        as   Security Guard #1
     Jason Larimore      as   Lurker
     Gwen McGee          as   Med Tech
     Mike McKenzie       as   Drazi #1
     Tom Simmons         as   Security Guard #2

C03) "A Day in the Strife"

     Directed by: David J. Eagle
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

LONDO: "Over the last two years, to my considerable surprise, I have
       become very fond of Vir.  Sometimes in his eyes I see a younger
       version of myself before... he would be better off away from here.
       Away from what must be."

G'Kar decides to leave B5 when a Centauri-appointed liaison arrives to
take over his position onboard the station.  Londo arranges for Vir to
become a liaison to the Minbari homeworld.  An alien probe makes first
contact with B5, threatening to blow up the station if hundreds of
scientific and mathematical calculations aren't answered correctly within
24 hours.  Meanwhile Franklin finds himself relying on stims to keep him
going.

     Stephen Macht       as   Na'Far
     Marshall Teague     as   Ta'Lon
     Anne Betancourt     as   Dr. Gonzalez
     Neil Bradley        as   Narn #1
     Joshua Cox          as   Corwin
     Mark Hendrickson    as   Narn #2
     Larita Shelby       as   Med Tech
     John St. Ryan       as   Troublemaker
     Michael Bailey Smith
                         as   G'Dok

C04) "Passing Through Gethsemane"

     Directed by: Adam Nimoy
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

GARIBALDI: "Nobody's ever been to the Vorlon homeworld and back again; and
           yet she goes and comes back like she just took a trip to the
           corner store. And now she's working for Kosh."
           
Lyta Alexander returns to the station and explains how she has been drawn
to Kosh since she first touched his mind, and is the first human to have
reached and returned from Vorlon space.  Brother Edward begins to see
terrifying visions in his mind and discovers that he has a hidden dark
past which he confronts.  As the B5 crew attempt to discover what is
really happening Lyta meets with Kosh once again and a few more questions
are raised...

     Brad Dourif         as   Brother Edward
     Patricia Tallman    as   Lyta Alexander
     Louis Turenne       as   Brother Theo
     Robert Keith        as   Malcolm
     Lynn Blades         as   News Anchor #2
     Natalie Brunt       as   Business Person
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Mark Folger         as   Centauri
     Steven Golzalez     as   News Anchor #1

C05) "Voices of Authority"

     Directed by: Menachem Binetski
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

IVANOVA: "Good luck, Captain. I think you're about to go where everyone
         has gone before."
                
In preparation for the coming war Delenn suggests that they attempt to
contact more of the First Ones for help.  Draal agrees to help them find
more of the First Ones.  G'Kar presses Delenn on the subject of Rangers
and is not happy with the lack of information he has been receiving from
everyone recently.  A political officer from the Ministry of Peace is
assigned to B5 and has more than work on her mind.  Ivanova makes a
startling discovery and Zack has further personal conflicts to deal with.

     John Schuck         as   Draal
     Shari Shattuck      as   Julie Musante 
     James Black         as   Security Guard #1
     Joshua Cox          as   Corwin
     Vimi Mani           as   ISN Anchor
     Gary McGurk         as   Vice President Clark
     
C06) "Dust to Dust"

     Directed by: David J. Eagle
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

NARN IMAGE: "You have the opportunity, here and now, to choose.  To become
            something greater and nobler and more difficult than you have
            been before.  The universe does not offer such chances often,
            G'Kar."

Vir returns to B5 and has differing points of view with Londo.  Bester
arrives to investigate the appearance of a drug known as "Dust" that
allows the user to activate his or her latent telepathic gene, and works
with Garibaldi to catch the distributors.  G'Kar reaches a turning point
when he gets holds of some "Dust" and, assaulting Londo, manages to delve
deep into Londo's mind, trying to find out whatever secrets he can.

     Julian Neil         as   Lindstrom
     Jim Norton          as   Narn Image
     Walter Koenig       as   Bester
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Harry Hutchinson    as   Security Guard #1
     John-Frederick Jones
                         as   Centauri Diplomat
     S. Marc Jordan      as   Shop Owner
     Judy Levitt         as   PSI Cop
     Gwen McGee          as   Med Tech
     Philip Moon         as   Ashi
     Walter O'Neil       as   Crazed Man
     David Shark         as   Man
     Kim Strauss         as   Vizak
     Dani Thompson       as   Ombuds

C07) "Exogenesis"

     Directed by: Kevin G. Cremin
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

FRANKLIN: "Closer examination confirms that the bio-mass is 100%
          genetically neutral.  It can exist in any life form."

Ivanova must determine whether or not Lt. Corwin should join their group
working against the Earth government.  Marcus Cole attempts to find out
why people are disappearing on the station.  As he and Dr. Franklin
investigate they are captured and discover that a race of parasitic aliens
that can attach themselves to and take over the mind of any life form have
been introduced into the station, and must stop them spreading before they
take over the whole station.

     James Warwick       as   Matthew Duffin
     Wylie Small         as   Jacque Lee
     Aubrey Morris       as   Duncan
     Joshua Cox          as   Corwin
     Ross Gottstein      as   Vendor
     Eric Steinberg      as   Samuel
     Donald Willis       as   Trader
     Michael McKenzie    as   Man
     Carrie Dobro        as   Dr. Harrison
     Kat Cressida        as   Kat
     Roger Rook          as   Lurker
     Leslie Pratt        as   Woman

C08) "Messages from Earth"

    Directed by: Michael Vejar
    Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

FRANKLIN: "If Earth and the Psi Corps really are working with the Shadows
           this is too big.  How can we fight something like that?"

A woman arrives on B5 and informs the crew that a Shadow ship was found
on Mars seven years ago.  More recently, one has been uncovered on
Ganymede, one of Jupiter's moons, and EarthGov wants to keep it in order
to control Earth.  Sheridan decides to go to Ganymede and destroy the
Shadow ship but finds himself battling the ship and in a confrontation
with his old ship, the Agamemnon.  The Nightwatch grows in strength and
Zack's position becomes more difficult.

     Nancy Stafford      as   Dr. Mary Kirkish
     Vaughn Armstrong    as   Security Guard #1
     Merrin Dungey       as   Security Guard #2
     Vimi Mani           as   ISN Anchor
     Lorraine Shields    as   Cook

C09) "Point of No Return"

     Directed by: Jim Johnston
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

O'REILLY: "Everything's gone to hell, John.  God help us all.  You're on
          your own."

As the Earth Alliance is put under martial law, the late Emperor Turhan's
third wife, Lady Morella arrives on B5 and agrees to give Londo a reading,
but it is not what he wants to hear.  The Nightwatch are given orders to
take over all security responsibilities and to root out traitors - this
throws people onboard B5 into panic and chaos.  As the crew attempt to
regain control of the station G'Kar offers help but demands admittance
into the secret alliance in return.

     Majel Barrett       as   Lady Morella
     Marshall Teague     as   Ta'Lon
     Vaughn Armstrong    as   Security Guard #1
     Lewis Arquette      as   General Smits
     Ed Trotta           as   Lt. General O'Reilly
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Passing Minbari
     Joshua Cox          as   Lt. Corwin
     Maggie Egan         as   ISN Reporter #1
     Milton James        as   Centauri Official
     Gunther Jensen      as   Nightwatch Guard
     Tony Rayner         as   Man

C10) "Severed Dreams"

     Directed by: David J. Eagle
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

HIROSHI: "Major, the ships receiving the attack order were already on
         their way here.  He doesn't want to risk Babylon 5 breaking away,
         so those ships are under orders to seize command of Babylon 5,
         arrest and detain its captain and the rest of the command staff,
         and put this station under the direct authority of President
         Clark and the Nightwatch."

The EAS Alexander, arrives at B5 bearing bad news.  Mars defies President
Clark's orders.  In return Earth bombs its civilian bases.  Other Earth
colonies declare independence and ISN is shut down.  Delenn visits the
Grey Council.  The EAS Churchill arrives with news that loyal EA warships
are arriving to capture the Alexander and take control of B5.  When the EA
forces arrives a bloody battle between once allies begins in space and
onboard B5.

     Kim Miyori          as   Captain Sandra Hiroshi
     Rance Howard        as   David Sheridan
     Phil Morris         as   Bill Trainor
     Bruce McGill        as   Major Ryan
     James Parks         as   Drakhen
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Religious Minbari
     Joshua Cox          as   Lt. Corwin
     Maggie Egan         as   ISN Reporter #1
     Matt Gottlieb       as   ISN Reporter #2
     Kim Strauss         as   Narn

C11) "Ceremonies of Light and Dark"

     Directed by: John C. Flinn, III
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

BOGGS: "Come with us... or die."

The crew keep on looking for members of the Nightwatch that may still be
hidden on the station.  Lord Refa arrives on B5 to meet with Londo.  The
B5 computer takes on a new personality much to Garibaldi's annoyance.
Delenn calls for a rebirth ceremony not knowing that she is the next
target for the Nightwatch.  She and other Minbari are taken as hostages
and will be executed unless all Minbari cruisers leave B5.

     William Forward     as   Lord Refa
     Don Stroud          as   Boggs
     Paul Perri          as   Sniper
     Kim Strauss         as   Lennan
     Vincent Bilanco     as   Maintenance Man
     Joshua Cox          as   Lt. Corwin
     Harlan Ellison      as   Sparky the Computer
     Doug McCoy          as   Guard
     Ed Wasser           as   Morden
     Jim Cody Williams   as   Thug #1

C12) "Sic Transit Vir"

     Directed by: Jesus Trevino
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

IVANOVA: "We ran a check on all the Narns who left Narn using Vir's travel
         papers.  According to the transit relocation files every one of
         them - all two thousand Narns, all of them - are dead."

Ivanova experiences a very strange dream.  On his return to B5 Vir
discovers that he has an arranged marriage and the lady in question has
just turned up.  But his problems are only just beginning as two Narns
have blood oaths against him.  Ivanova investigates and discovers a
startling fact.  She confronts Vir and Londo about it.  Meanwhile Sheridan
and Delenn's relationship develops.

     Carmen Thomas       as   Lyndisty
     Damian London       as   Centauri Official
     James Jude Courtney as   Narn #1

C13) "A Late Delivery from Avalon"

     Directed by: Michael Vejar
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

ARTHUR: "Mister?  Mister!  Have I been gone that long?  Have you forgotten
        everything?  I am Arthur, son of Utherpendragon and King of the
        Britons.  No man takes Excalibur from me and lives."

As the first Earth transport since B5's secession from the Earth Alliance
arrives at the station, it brings along a man who believes he is King
Arthur.  As Franklin and Marcus try to find out who he really is, Arthur
and G'Kar form an alliance.  Meanwhile Garibaldi is having trouble getting
a package from the Post Office and Sheridan attempts to form an alliance
with the League of Non-Aligned Worlds.

     Michael York        as   Arthur
     Michael Kagen       as   Emmett Farquaha
     Roger Hampton       as   Merchant
     Dona Hardy          as   Old Woman
     Michael Francis Kelly
                         as   Security Guard #1
     James Kiriyama-Lem  as   Med Tech
     Robert Schuch       as   Lurker
     Jerry O'Donnell     as   Security Guard #2

C14) "Ship of Tears"

     Directed by: Michael Vejar
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

SHERIDAN: "Are you sure you don't know what's inside that ship,
          Mr. Bester?"
BESTER: "Weapon supplies.  That's what I was told."

A distress call from a lone Star Fury brings the crew in contact with
Bester once more.  Wishing to help he tells them about a transport
carrying vital weapons to the Rim for the Shadows, but these weapons turn
out to be something much more.  G'Kar demands to join the alliance against
the Shadows.  Delenn reveals to G'Kar the Grey Council's foreknowledge of
the Shadow/Centauri alliance.  Then the Shadows begin their attack.

     Joan McMurtrey      as   Carolyn
     Diana Morgan        as   Alison
     Walter Koenig       as   Bester
     Debra Sharkey       as   Med Tech

C15) "Interludes and Examinations"

     Directed by: Jesus Trevino
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

KOSH: "You do not understand, but you will."

The Shadows have begun their attack, beginning with worlds near the Rim.
Londo prepares for Adira's return.  Franklin begins to feel the pressure
and continues to take stims.  Morden slips onto B5 and confronts Londo
about the pull back of the Centauri campaign.  Sheridan asks for Kosh's
help against the Shadows but has a hard time convincing the Vorlon to act,
getting very angry with Kosh in the process.  And then someone dies...

     Jennifer Balgobin   as   Dr. Lilian Hobbs
     Rance Howard        as   David Sheridan
     Jan Rabson          as   Vendor
     Ed Wasser           as   Morden
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Brakiri
     Maggie Ciglar       as   Tech
     Glenn Martin        as   Ranger
     Doug Tompos         as   Med Tech

C16) "War Without End, Part I"

     Directed by: Michael Vejar
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

DELENN: "At this moment the Great Machine is using all its power to
        enlarge the temporal rift in Sector 14.  We will use it to go back
        6 years into the past.  Once there we must prevent the destruction
        of Babylon 4 and take the station with us through time, because if
        we fail to save Babylon 4, Babylon 5 will also be destroyed."

Garibaldi investigates a distress signal from Sector 14 and discovers that
B5 is doomed for destruction in a Shadow attack.  Sinclair returns to the
station and the crew discover that they must travel back in time to save
B4 from destruction by the Shadows.  Failure of the mission will seal B5's
fate.  Things do not go according to plan and Sheridan finds himself stuck
years into the future on the Centauri homeworld.

     Tim Choate          as   Zathras
     Time Winters        as   Rathenn
     Michael O'Hare      as   Ambassador Jeffrey Sinclair
     Joshua Cox          as   Lt. Corwin
     Kevin Fry           as   Centauri Guard
     Eric Ziuot          as   Spragg

C17) "War Without End, Part II"

     Directed by: Michael Vejar
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

DELENN: "The war is never completely won.  There are always new battles to
        be fought against the darkness - only the names change.  But we...
        we achieved everything we set out to achieve.  We created
        something that will endure for a thousand years.  But the price,
        John, the terrible, terrible price."

As the crew continue their attempt to send B4 back into the past an
accident pushes the station into the future to the time of the episode
"Babylon Squared".  Sheridan, stuck in the future, is sentenced to death
by Londo.  Zathras, in his attempts to bring Sheridan back, is captured.
Further revelations are discovered.

     Tim Choate          as   Zathras
     Kent Broadhurst     as   Major Krantz
     Bruce Morrow        as   B4 First Officer
     Michael O'Hare      as   Ambassador Jeffrey Sinclair
     Kevin Fry           as   Centauri Guard
     Eddie Mui           as   B4 Tech

C18) "Walkabout"

     Directed by: Kevin G. Cremin
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

IVANOVA: "Ambassador Kosh is dead."
KOSH: "We are all Kosh."

The new Vorlon Ambassador 'Kosh' arrives on B5 and turns out to be more
mysterious than the old 'Kosh'.  Lyta Alexander returns to discover the
cause of Kosh's death and to meet with the new ambassador.  She assists
the crew in a trial attack on the Shadows using her telepathic powers, but
not all the races are willing to assist in the attack.  Franklin meets a
singer in Downbelow whilst on a journey to find himself.

     Erica Gimpel        as   Cailyn
     Patricia Tallman    as   Lyta Alexander
     Jennifer Balgobin   as   Dr. Lilian Hobbs
     Robin Sachs         as   Na'Kal
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Michael McKenzie    as   Minbari Captain

C19) "Grey 17 is Missing"

     Directed by: John C. Flinn, III
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

NEROON: "I am sworn to stop you, Delenn, by any and all means necessary."

When people start to disappear in Grey Sector, Garibaldi investigates and
becomes trapped in a 'missing' level of Grey Sector.  Delenn accepts the
responsibility and position of Ranger One, but as preparations begin for
the initialization ceremony her life is threatened by Neroon.  Marcus must
stop him at all costs.  Franklin begins to feel the effects of stim
withdrawal symptoms.

     Robert Englund      as   Jeremiah
     Katherine Moffat    as   Supervisor
     Eamonn Roche        as   First Man
     John Vickery        as   Neroon
     Time Winters        as   Rathenn
     Thom Barry          as   Maintenance Worker

C20) "And the Rock Cried Out, No Hiding Place"

     Directed by: David J. Eagle
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

LONDO: "So I have found a way to get him away from here and back to Narn.
       And once there he can be arrested, detained and executed.  And you,
       Vir, are going to help me."

Londo plots against G'Kar in an attempt to dispose of him once and for
all.  He blackmails an unwilling Vir into helping him.  Lord Refa arrives
with his own plans for conquest and kidnaps Vir.  A group of religious
people arrive with information for Sheridan, who begins to feel the
effects of the burden of responsibility as he continues to try and make
sense of the Shadows seemingly random attack strategy.

     Erick Avari         as   Rabbi Leo Meyers
     William Forward     as   Lord Refa
     Louis Turenne       as   Brother Theo
     Mel Winkler         as   Reverend Will Dexter
     Francois Giroday    as   Virini
     Paul Keith          as   Drigo
     Wayne Alexander     as   G'Dan
     Marva Hicks         as   Singer

C21) "Shadow Dancing"

     Directed by: Kim Friedman
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

IVANOVA: "That's a lot of ships."
MARCUS: "That's a bloody aweful lot of ships."
IVANOVA: "Jump engines back on line yet?"
MARCUS: "No.  If I signal the fleet this lot might pick it up.  If they do
        we can't get away."
IVANOVA:" Well, who wants to live forever?"
MARCUS: "I do actually, but what the hell... signal away."

With the discovery of an imminent Shadow attack, the White Star is sent on
an advance warning mission.  Delenn attempts to convince as many races as
possible from the League to join forces for a massive strike against the
Shadows.  Franklin finally finds himself when his life is in mortal
danger, but it is not what he expected.  Then the first large scale battle
begins and the Shadows send a unexpected guest to B5.

     Shirley Prestice    as   Barbara
     Melissa Gilbert     as   Anna
     John Grantham       as   Thug #2
     J. Gordon Noice     as   Man
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Brakiri
     Joshua Cox          as   Lt. Corwin
     Mark Hendrickson    as   Drazi Ambassador
     Nicholas Ross Oleson
                         as   Thug #1
     Doug Cox            as   Husband

C22) "Z'ha'dum"

     Directed by: Adam Nimoy
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

ANNA: "Don't you want to know what it's all about?  What it's really all
      about?  I can do that,  All you have to do is come with me."
SHERIDAN: "Where?"
ANNA: "Where else?  To Z'ha'dum."

Sheridan is both confused and shocked to find that his wife, Anna, has
returned from the grave.  She convinces him to go with her to Z'ha'dum to
hear the truth about the Shadows.  Franklin discovers something startling
about Anna.  Londo receives a message from a Shadow agent.  A large scale
Shadow fleet suddenly appears around B5, poised to attack.  Sheridan,
caught in a trap, makes the ultimate sacrifice.  Garibaldi, whilst out
defending B5 against the Shadow fleet, vanishes without a trace.

     Jeff Corey          as   Justin
     Ron Campbell        as   Messenger
     Ed Wasser           as   Morden
     Melissa Gilbert     as   Anna Sheridan
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Joshua Cox          as   Lt. Corwin

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[4]  U.K. AIR DATES & RATINGS
=============================

DATE FORMAT: yy/mm/dd
RATINGS FORMAT: position/viewers in millions

Please note that the UK running order of the episodes may not be the same
as the US order.

AIR DATE  PROD.  TITLE                               RATINGS
          CODE

96/04/14   301   "Matters of Honor"
96/04/21   302   "Convictions"
96/04/28   303   "A Day in the Strife"
96/05/05   305   "Passing Through Gethsemane"
96/05/12   304   "Voices of Authority"
96/05/19   306   "Dust To Dust"
96/05/26   307   "Exogenesis"
96/06/02   308   "Messages From Earth"
96/06/09   309   "Point of No Return"
96/06/16   310   "Severed Dreams"
96/06/23   311   "Ceremonies of Light and Dark"
96/07/07   313   "Sic Transit Vir"
96/07/14   312   "A Late Delivery from Avalon"
96/07/21   314   "Ship of Tears"
96/07/28   315   "Interludes and Examinations"
96/08/04   316   "War Without End, Part I"
96/08/11   317   "War Without End, Part II"
96/08/18   318   "Walkabout"
96/08/01   319   "Grey 17 is Missing"
96/09/08   320   "And the Rock Cried Out, No Hiding Place"
96/09/15   321   "Shadow Dancing"
96/09/22   322   "Z'ha'dum"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[5]  SEASON 3 UK EDITS
======================

All information included here are based on edits made on 1st run episodes.
Repeated episodes that may have been further edited are not included.  If
you know of any other edits, e-mail me all the details!

Edits are listed in the format:-

[ep. #]  [title]
[edited scenes]

C02) "Convictions"

  a) Near the end of the episode when Londo and G'Kar are found in the
     elevator they should have said...

     Londo: "Bastard."
     G'Kar: "Monster."
     Londo: "Fanatic."
     G'Kar: "Murderer."
     Londo: "You're insane!"
     G'Kar: "That's why we'll win!"

C03) "A Day in the Strife"

  a) There is a very short cut where Franklin goes to his drawer to take
     out a stim.  He takes the stim out and presses it against his wrist
     (which was cut), and is then seem rubbing his wrist.

C05) "Passing Through Gethsemane"

  a) As Delenn visits Garibaldi in his office he stops the conversation in
     order to hear the ISN broadcast on the "Death by Personality"
     judgement given to a criminal.  When explaining to her what the item
     is about he refers to the criminal as a bastard, which was edited out.

C08) "Messages from Earth"

  a) The scene at the beginning in which Marcus is bringing Kirkish aboard
     the station is cut.  The fight sequences are trimmed and there are
     reports that Marcus also said "Bastards" at one point.  

C09) "Point of No Return"

  a) During the scene in which Sheridan is announcing Martial Law, the
     fight sequences have been trimmed.  Rather than have to edit
     Sheridan's announcement, it appears that the images have been slowed
     down in places to match the duration of the dialogue.

C11) "Ceremonies of Light and Dark"

  a) The fight scene in the bar with Marcus has been edited.  You should
     have seen the large, bearded man grabbing a bottle from the bar and
     swinging it at Marcus's head.  Marcus ducks, the bottle smashes into
     the other bad guy's face, which takes him down.  Then Marcus takes
     out the large, bearded man.  He might have said "bastards" again at
     some point.

  b) The scene where Delenn is knifed in the back has been edited.  You
     should have seen the knife being thrown, hit Delenn, and hear her go
     *umph*.

C18) "Walkabout"

  a) When Lyta is battling the Shadow Vessel using her mind you did not
     hear her say "Burn you bastards."

C19) "Grey 17 is Missing"

  a) The fight scene between Marcus and Neroon have been edited.  If
     anyone has details, please let me know.

C21) "Shadow Dancing"

  a) The scene where Franklin is knifed is shown in a bit more detail in
     the US version.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[6]  AND FINALLY...
===================

I hope you find this guide useful.  If you have any suggestions, comments,
or just want to say hi, you can drop me a line at one of the following:-

     Mr. Edwin Yau,     e-mail:   mrpotato@fastnet.co.uk
     16 Hogarth Road,
     HOVE,
     East Sussex,
     BN3 5RG.
     ENGLAND.

Hellos to... Peter Berry, Steven Grimm, Tobias Richter, Channel 4
             Television and all the guys at Visual Imagination Ltd.!


                              === END ===
