
B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5
B5                                  B5
B5   Babylon 5 (UK) Episode Guide   B5
B5        -=>  SEASON 2  <=-        B5
B5                                  B5
B5    Guide Date : November 1996    B5
B5                                  B5
B5     Compiled By : Edwin Yau      B5
B5                                  B5
B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5  B5


     CONTENTS (* = additions/changes)

   * [1]  README
     [2]  SEASON 2 CREDITS
     [3]  EPISODE GUIDE
          [3.1]  NARRATIONS
          [3.2]  SEASON 2
     [4]  U.K. AIR DATES & RATINGS
     [5]  SEASON 2 UK EDITS
     [6]  AND FINALLY...

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]  README
===========

Welcome to the Babylon 5 (UK) episode guide!  Don't be put off by the fact
that it has a UK bias though as most of the information (i.e. the actual
episode guide part and list of edits) is relevant to whatever country you
are in!

This guide is actually a portion of a much larger guide which I have split
up due to the growing size of the guide.  To download other seasons look
for the following files:-

        b5uk_s1.txt     season 1 guide
        b5uk_s2.txt     season 2 guide
        b5uk_s3.txt     season 3 guide
        b5uk_s4.txt     season 4 guide
        b5uk_s5.txt     season 5 guide

This guide is Copyright (C) November 1996 by Edwin Yau.  It may be
redistributed freely in its complete form, but may not be reproduced in
any form whatsoever if any monies is to be made from it.  No attempt has
been made to supersede any rights held by Warner Bros. TV, Babylonian
Productions Inc., Channel 4 TV, TNT, PTEN or any other copyright holders.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[2]  SEASON 2 CREDITS
=====================

STARRING:
     Bruce Boxleitner    as   Captain John Sheridan
     Claudia Christian   as   (Lt.) Commander Susan Ivanova
     Jerry Doyle         as   Security Chief Michael Garibaldi
     Mira Furlan         as   Ambassador Delenn
     Richard Biggs       as   Dr. Stephen Franklin
     Andrea Thompson     as   Psi Corps Telepath Talia Winters
     Stephen Furst       as   Vir Cotto
     Bill Mumy           as   Lennier
     Mary Kay Adams      as   Na'Toth
     Robert Rusler       as   Warren Keffer
     Andreas Katsulas    as   Ambassador G'Kar
     Peter Jurasik       as   Ambassador Londo Mollari

CREATED BY..............: J. Michael Straczynski
PRODUCED BY.............: John Copeland
CO-PRODUCER.............: Richard Compton
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER......: Douglas Netter
                          J. Michael Straczynski
ASSOCIATE PRODUCER......: George Johnsen
CONCEPTUAL CONSULTANT...: Harlan Ellison
STORY EDITOR............: Lawrence G. DiTillio
MUSIC BY................: Christopher Franke
MUSIC PERFORMED BY......: Christopher Franke and
                          The Berlin Symphonic Film Orchestra
CASTING BY..............: Mary Jo Slater, C.S.A.
                          Steve Brooksbank, C.S.A.
VISUAL EFFECTS BY.......: Ron Thornton
PRODUCTION DESIGNER.....: John Iacovelli
DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY.: John C. Flinn III
COSTUME DESIGNER........: Ann Brucie

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[3]  EPISODE GUIDE
==================

-------------------------------------
[3.1]  OPENING AND CLOSING NARRATIONS
-------------------------------------

All narrations are opening unless otherwise stated.

------------------
SEASON 2 NARRATION
------------------

     "The Babylon Project  was  our last,  best,  hope for peace.  A self
     contained world five  miles long,  located in  neutral territory.  A
     place of commerce  and diplomacy  for a quarter  of a million humans
     and aliens.  A shining beacon in space,  all alone in the night.  It
     was the dawn of the  third age  of mankind,  the year  The Great War
     came upon  us all.  This is  the story  of the last  of the  Babylon
     stations.  The year is 2259.  The name of the place is Babylon 5."

                                             - Captain John Sheridan

---------------------------------
SEASON 2 FINALE CLOSING NARRATION
---------------------------------

     "It was the end of the Earth year 2259  and the war was upon us.  As
     anticipated,  a  few  days  after  the  Earth-Centauri  treaty   was
     announced the Centauri widened their war to include many of the Non-
     Aligned Worlds.

     "And there was  another war brewing  closer to home.  A personal one
     whose cost would be higher than any of us could imagine...

     "We came to this place because Babylon 5 was our last, best hope for
     peace.  By the end of 2259  we knew  that it  had failed.  But in so
     doing it became  something greater.  As the war  expanded it  became
     our last, best hope for victory.  Because sometimes peace is another
     word for surrender, and because secrets has a way of getting out."

                                             - Commander Susan Ivanova,
                                               "The Fall of Night"

---------------------------------------
[3.2]  SEASON 2 - THE COMING OF SHADOWS
---------------------------------------

B01) "Points of Departure"

     Directed by: Janet Greek
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

SHERIDAN: "The president feels the Minbari had too much influence over an
          Earth Outpost.  Times change."
HEDRONN: "And the day that a man such as yourself is given such a position
         of this importance is a dark day indeed.  We lost many of our
         best warriors because of you... and we do not soon forget such
         things.  If there is a doom upon this station it's because you
         brought it here."

Captain John Sheridan arrives on B5 to assume a command he isn't entirely
sure about.  To complicate matters the Minbari do not agree with the
appointment of a man known to them as 'The Starkiller'.  Sheridan also has
to deal with a renegade Minbari warship, the Trigati, which has been
sighted in the area, and when a Minbari is captured whilst attempting to
assassinate Delenn, the Trigati appears and threatens B5.  Commander
Sinclair reaches an important destiny and the secret of his missing 24
hours at the Battle of the Line is revealed.

     Richard Grove       as   Kalain
     Robin Sachs         as   Hedronn
     Robert Foxworth     as   General William Hague
     Jennifer Anglin     as   Deeron
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Ambassador #1
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Kim Delgado         as   Dome Tech #3
     Rus Fega            as   Merchant #1
     Bennet Guillory     as   Merchant #2
     Catherine Hader     as   Young Woman
     Mark Hendrickson    as   Ambassador #2
     Kristopher Logan    as   Ambassador #3
     Michael McKenzie    as   Vastor
     Debra Sharkey       as   Tech #2
     Brian Starcher      as   Other Pilot
     Kim Strauss         as   Ensign
     Thomas Valinote     as   Security Guard #2
     Greg Wrangler       as   Security Guard #1

B02) "Revelations"

     Directed by: Jim Johnston
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

LONDO [laughs]: "Why don't you eliminate the entire Narn homeworld while
                you're at it?"
MORDEN: "One thing at a time, Ambassador... One thing at a time."

Londo continues to plot his rise to power with the aid of Morden.  G'Kar
arrives back on B5 with news of a powerful and terrible new enemy.
Sheridan deals with the loss of his wife with a little help from his
sister, and Delenn finally emerges from her chrysalis looking very
different.  Garibaldi is finally revived from his coma and, with some help
from Talia Winters, confronts the traitor who shot him, but this only
brings up some more sinister news.

     Beverly Leech       as   Elizabeth Sheridan
     Macaulay Bruton     as   Garibaldi's Aide
     Beth Toussaint      as   Anna Sheridan
     David L. Crowley    as   Lou Welch
     Mark Hendrickson    as   Narn Captain
     James Kiriyama-Lem  as   Med Tech
     Gary McGurk         as   President Clark
     Michael McKenzie    as   Narn Navigator
     Warren Tabata       as   Guard
     Ed Wasser           as   Morden

B03) "The Geometry of Shadows"

     Directed by: Mike Laurence Vejar
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

ELRIC: "As I look at you, Ambassador Mollari, I see a great hand reaching
       out of the stars.  The hand is your hand.  And I hear sounds - the
       sounds of billions of people calling your name."
LONDO: "My followers?"
ELRIC: "Your victims."

Ivanova starts training in the finer points in being a diplomatic officer
and is promoted to commander.  Her first test is to deal with the Drazi,
who have split into two groups and are fighting it out to find which group
will rule the other.  Over 100 powerful Technomages, who use magic-like
science, arrive on the station and Londo makes a mistake by trying all
means to seek an audience with them.  Garibaldi, still recovering from his
wounds and the fact that he was betrayed by his own second-in-command,
considers his future.

     Michael Ansara      as   Elric
     William Forward     as   Refa
     David L. Crowley    as   Lou Welch
     Kim Strauss         as   Green Drazi
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Green Drazi #2
     Neil Bradley        as   Purple Drazi
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Edward Conery       as   Devereaux
     Warren Tabata       as   Guard

B04) "A Distant Star"

     Directed by: Jim Johnston
     Written by.: D.C. Fontana

IVANOVA: "All my life I've fought against Imperialism.  Now, suddenly I am
         the expanding Russian frontier!"
FRANKLIN: "But with very nice borders."

Sheridan's first commanding officer, Captain Maynard, shows up on B5 and
questions his former subordinate about being tied to a desk as opposed to
being out in space travelling the stars.  When Maynard's ship is trapped
in hyperspace the B5 crew must find a way to rescue the ship... and they
discover that something may be living in hyperspace.  Dr. Franklin puts
Sheridan, Ivanova and Garibaldi on a strict diet which they are finding
hard to keep to.  Meanwhile the Minbari are unsure of the Delenn's new
appearance.

     Russ Tamblyn        as   Captain Jack Maynard
     Daniel Beer         as   Patrick
     Art Kimbro          as   Ray Galus
     Miguel A. Nunez, Jr.
                         as   Orwell
     Patty Toy           as   Ogilvie
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech
     Kim Delgado         as   Comm Tech
     Sandey Grinn        as   Teronn

B05) "The Long Dark"

     Directed by: Mario DiLeo
     Written by.: Scott Frost

MARKAB AMBASSADOR: "She has bought something evil from the past - a
                   soldier of darkness."

A ship over 100 years old floating towards B5 is bought onboard and found
to contain a cryogenically-frozen young lady and her murdered husband.
Reviving the lady, Dr. Franklin develops a relationship with her.
Meanwhile Garibaldi arrests a lurker who can sense a coming doom.  When an
alien is killed on B5, the death is discovered to be similar to the death
of the lady's husband and she becomes a suspect.  The death also leads to
some dark news about an alien entity and Garibaldi sets out to stop it.

     Anne-Marie Johnson  as   Mariah Cirrus
     Dwight Schultz      as   Amis
     Jennifer Anglin     as   Alien #1
     Neil Bradley        as   Alien #2
     James Kiriyama-Lem  as   Medlab Tech
     Kim Strauss         as   Markab Ambassador
     Warren Tabata       as   Guard

B06) "Spider in the Web"

     Directed by: Kevin G. Cremin
     Written by.: Lawrence G. DiTillio

SHERIDAN: "For the past 6 years there have been rumours about a rouge
          agency operating deep inside Earth Gov.  A dirty tricks squad
          dealing in black projects and star-chambered justice.  It took
          me over 3 years just to get a name - Bureau 13.  And the man who
          gave me that name died soon after..."

As preliminary negotiations between Isogi, the Future Corp representative,
and the Provisional Mars government representative ends successfully,
Isogi is murdered.  But what seems like an assassination by the Free Mars
movement turns out to be something much deadlier, and a shaken Talia finds
that she is the murderer's next target!  However the murderer is not all
he seems and as the crew investigate, things get deeper and deeper... the
killer is supposed to be dead and someone else is pulling the strings!

     Michael Beck        as   Abel Horn
     Adrienne Barbeau    as   Amanda Carter
     James Shigeta       as   Taro Isogi
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allan
     Jessica Walters     as   Senator Elise Voudreau
     Annie Grindlay      as   Thirteen/Psi Cop
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1

B07) "A Race Through Dark Places"

     Directed by: Jim Johnston
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

TALIA: "Then what am I?"
RICK: "The future..."

Psi Cop Bester returns to B5 and enlists Talis's help with a mission - to
investigate the underground railroad of unregistered telepaths that are
being smuggled through B5.  But when they are attacked she ends up being
kidnapped much to Garibaldi's distress.  Delenn asks Sheridan to help her
understand humans better which culminates with a night out on B5.
Meanwhile both Ivanova and Sheridan finds themselves locked out of their
quarters for not paying extra rent!

     Apesanahkwat        as   Telepath #1
     Brian Cousins       as   Rick
     Diane Dilascio      as   Telepath #2
     Gianin Loffler      as   Lurker
     Walter Koenig       as   Bester
     Eddie Allen         as   Man
     Kathryn Cressida    as   Bartender
     Judy Levitt         as   Psi Cop
     Christopher Michael as   Shooter
     William Allen Young as   Jason Ironheart

B08) "Soul Mates"

     Directed by: John C. Flinn, III
     Written by.: Peter David

GARIBALDI: "I'll be keeping an eye on you."
STONER: "Use both eyes.  You'll need them."

Stoner, a man who has left Psi-Corp and is Talia's ex-husband, has come to
B5.  He offers Talia a way out of the organisation.  Garibaldi, believing
that Stoner has other motives in mind, and concerned for Talia, keeps a
close eye on him.  Londo's 3 wives come aboard B5 to find out that he
plans to divorce all but one wife.  He ends up poisoned, but is it one of
his wives' doing?  Delenn has problems of her own since her transformation
and Ivanova agrees to help her out.

     Keith Szarabajka    as   Matthew Stoner
     Lois Nettleson      as   Daggair
     Blair Valk          as   Mariel
     David L. Crowley    as   Lou Welch
     Carel Struycken     as   Trader
     Jane Carr           as   Timov
     Brian Michael McGuire
                         as   Man

B09) "The Coming of Shadows"

     Directed by: Janet Greek
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

G'KAR: "Our hope for peace is over.  We are now at war... We are now at
       war."

The aging Centauri Emperor arrives on B5, something which G'Kar feels
strongly against.  He decides that assassination is the only option, but
things do not go according to plan and he is in for a few revelations and
surprises.  While G'Kar ends up offering the hand of friendship, Londo
makes a decision which can only mean no turning back from the path he has
chosen.  Garibaldi arrests a man who has been following him, but he turns
out to have an important message for him from an old friend...

     Fredric Lehne       as   Ranger
     Malachi Throne      as   Centauri Prime Minister
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allan
     William Forward     as   Refa
     Turhan Bey          as   Centauri Emperor
     Michael O'Hare      as   Ambassador Jeffrey Sinclair
     Neil Bradley        as   Kha'Mak
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Narn Pilot #2
     Bryan Michael McGuire
                         as   Customs Guard #1
     Kim Strauss         as   Narn Pilot #1

B10) "GROPOS"

     Directed by: Jim Johnston
     Written by.: Lawrence G. DiTillio

SHERIDAN: "Killing is part of a soldier's job.  We can't deny it, we can
          only live with it and hope the reasons for doing it are
          justified."

The station is overrun by 25,000 Earth Alliance Marines, better known as
GROPOS (GROund POunderS).  Commanded by General Richard Franklin (Dr.
Franklin's father), the marines are using B5 as a staging area before
going off to battle.  While Sheridan and General Franklin work on a
strategy for the dangerous battle ahead, the marines are disrupting life
on B5 for the crew, ambassadors and other residents.  Meanwhile Ivanova
gives Dr. Franklin some advice on getting on with his father.

     Paul Winfield       as   General Richard Franklin
     David L. Crowley    as   Lou Welch
     Ryan Cutrona        as   Sgt. Major Plug
     Ken Foree           as   P.F.C. Large
     Morgan Hunter       as   Pvt. Kleist
     Marie Marshall      as   P.F.C. Dodger
     Art Chudabala       as   Pvt. Yang
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Maggie Egan         as   ISN Reporter
     Elisa Beth Garver   as   Tech #2
     Mowava Pryor        as   Tonia Wallace

B11) "All Alone in the Night"

     Directed by: Mario DiLeo
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

DELENN: "Very soon now I will be going into darkness and fire.  I do not
        know if I am fated to walk out again."

While Ivanova deals with a surprise visit from General Hague, Sheridan
goes on a mission, but is captured by aliens.  While the crew try to
rescue him, he ends up having to fight his way out to freedom.  It is also
discovered that his appointment to B5 is not all it seems.  Delenn,
summoned to her homeworld, appears before the Grey Council only to be
rebuked because of her new appearance and the path she has chosen to take.
With the appointment of her successor she realises that things have taken
more ominous directions.

     Nick Corri          as   Lt. Ramirez
     Marshall Teague     as   Narn
     Robin Sachs         as   Hedronn
     John Vickery        as   Neroon
     Robert Foxworth     as   General Hague
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1

B12) "Acts of Sacrifice"

     Directed by: Jim Johnston
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

NARN: "Tell the others...  We attack in 6 hours...  And when we finish
      there must not be one Centauri alive left on this station!"

Tension is escalating rapidly on B5 between the Narns and the Centauri
thanks to the recent murder of over 5,000 Narn civilians, and fights
between the two races break out on B5.  G'Kar, trying to get help from the
other races, finds that he must fight his own people in the battle for
peace.  Sheridan discovers that he can only help the Narns by unofficial
means, and Ivanova must negotiate with the Lumati, a very strange new
race, in the hope that they will side with the Earth Alliance in this
conflict.

     Paul Williams       as   Taq
     Christopher Darga   as   Narn #1
     Glenn Morshower     as   Franke
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allan
     Ian Abecrombie      as   Correlilmurzon
     Paul Ainsley        as   Centauri #1
     Jennifer Anglin     as   Narn Second
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Kathryn Cressida    as   Bartender
     Sandey Grinn        as   Narn Captain
     David Sage          as   Centauri Merchant

B13) "Hunter, Prey"

     Directed by: Menachem Binetski
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

KOSH: "I will teach you."
SHERIDAN: "About yourself?"
KOSH: "About you.  Until you are ready."
SHERIDAN: "For what?"
KOSH: "To fight legends."

B5 receives a fugitive alert from EarthForce - the crew must assist Agent
Cranston in tracking down Dr. Jacobs, President Clark's former physician,
who has enough information to bring down the Earth Alliance.  Sheridan
receives a message that would indicate that the doctor is not a traitor,
and it would be in Earth's interest to get the doctor off the station
before Cranston locates him.  The mystery of the Vorlons deepens as
Sheridan has a very strange meeting with Ambassador Kosh.

     Bernie Casey        as   Derek Cranston
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allan
     Wanda De Jesus      as   Sarah
     Tony Steedman       as   Dr. Everett Jacobs
     Richard Moll        as   Max
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Bryan Michael McGuire
                         as   Guard #2
     Damon C. Reiser     as   Lurker
     Debby Shiveley      as   Aide
     Robert Silver       as   Merchant

B14) "There All The Honor Lies"

     Directed by: Mike Laurence Vejar
     Written by.: Peter David

SHERIDAN: "Why would I, out of the blue, attack your man."
ASHAN: "He was not a man though, was he?  He was Minbari... Starkiller."

While chasing a thief, Sheridan is attacked by a Minbari warrior who he
kills in self defense, but when another Minbari witnesses the fight and
claims that Sheridan attacked and killed the Minbari without provocation,
Sheridan's career and command comes into jeopardy.  Ivanova is assigned to
keep an eye on Earth Alliance's new idea to raise funds for B5 by
merchandising it, which causes some surprises and upsets.  Vir has his own
problems when he finds out that he is to be replaced as Londo's attache to
the station.

     Julie Caitlin Brown as   Guinevere Corey
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allan
     Sean Gregory Sullivan
                         as   Ashan
     Neil Bradley        as   Minbari #3
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Minbari #2
     Vincent Duvall      as   Centauri Envoy
     Eliott Harold       as   Human Customer
     Mark Hendrickson    as   Human/Alien Customer
     Ossie Mair          as   Store Owner
     Michael McKenzie    as   Alien Customer

B15) "And Now For a Word"

     Directed by: Mario DiLeo
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

CYNTHIA: "Do you think attacks of this nature put everyone onboard
         Babylon 5 in unnecessary jeopardy?"
G'KAR: "We are already in far greater jeopardy than you can possibly
       imagine."

Presented as a fictional newscast (complete with commercials), ISN does a
special "Thirty-Six Hours on Babylon 5" feature.  Whilst there, they catch
the eruption of an armed space conflict between the Narns and Centauri.
ISN interviews Londo and G'Kar on the war between the two races and also
talks to the senior crew of B5 and Delenn, getting them to reveal their
personal thoughts.  While Sheridan is forced to send out fighters to
protect B5, many people back on Earth are concerned about B5's
effectiveness.

     Kim Zimmer          as   Cynthia Torqueman
     Christopher Curry   as   Ronald Quantrell
     Granville Ames      as   Psi Cop
     John Christian Graas
                         as   Johnny
     Leslie Wing         as   Mother
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Jose Rey            as   Dock Worker

B16) "In the Shadow of Z'ha'dum"

     Directed by: David J. Eagle
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

SHERIDAN: "I want you to teach me how to fight them, how to beat them,
          because sooner or later I'm going to Z'ha'dum and I'm going to
          stop them."
KOSH: "If you go to Z'ha'dum you will die."

As Sheridan sorts through information sent by his wife shortly before her
death, Garibaldi recognises one of the supposed fatalities - Morden, who
is on B5 at this very moment in time.  Against all advice and regulations,
Sheridan detains Morden and questions him for hours, determined to find
out how he survived and how the disaster happened.  Desperate for answers,
he tricks Talia Winters into helping him.  When Delenn and Kosh reveal
what is really going on, Sheridan is forced to make the most important and
agonizing decision of his life.

     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allan
     Alex Hyde-White     as   Pierce Macabee
     Ed Wasser           as   Morden
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh

B17) "Knives"

     Directed by: Stephen L. Posey
     Written by.: Lawrence G. DiTillio

LONDO: "I have a destiny to fulfill.  One which will take our people back
       to a golden age.  We are Centauri, Urza.  We are meant to conquer,
       to rule, to build empires."

Sheridan decides to investigate the Grey Sector, which is rumoured to be
haunted.  While there he encounters a corpse of a trader which transfers
an alien spirit into him.  He is left with many strange and disturbing
visions, and the disappearance of B4 may hold the key.  Things do not go
well for Londo either when Urza, a lifelong friend, arrives on the station
asking for his help to restore his family's honour.  Londo, unwilling to
help publicly, leaves Urza no choice but to challenge him to a duel to the
death.

     Carmen Argenziano   as   Urza Jaddo
     William Forward     as   Lord Refa
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Elisa Beth Garver   as   Tech #2
     William Dennis Hunt as   Centauri Noble

B18) "Confessions and Lamentations"

     Directed by: Kevin G. Cremin
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

FRANKLIN: "No, something here doesn't add up, and unlike Mr. Garibaldi I
          don't like mysteries."

When members of the Markab race begin to die within days of each other and
a Markab ship is found with all her crew members dead, Dr. Franklin places
the entire Markab population under quarantine as he searches desperately
for a cure.  When a Pak'ma'ra dies of the same disease, indicating it can
infect other races, panic spreads throughout the station.  Dr. Franklin
races to find a cure but he may be too late already as the death toll
rises and a civilization balances on the brink of annihilation.

     Jim Norton          as   Dr. Lazarenn
     Diane Adair         as   Markab Mother
     Andrew Craig        as   Human
     Maggie Egan         as   ISN Reporter
     Mike Manzoni        as   Guard
     Michael McKenzie    as   Markab Victim
     Bluejean Ashley Secrist
                         as   Markab Girl
     Kim Strauss         as   Markab Ambassador
     Dan Woren           as   Bartender
     Rosie Malek-Yonan   as   Doctor

B19) "Divided Loyalties"

     Directed by: Jesus Trevino
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

LYTA: "Just give him a message!  Tell him that someone here, one of you,
      is a traitor... and I can prove it!"

Telepath Lyta Alexander returns to B5.  Now part of a revolutionary
movement against Psi Corp, she is convinced that there is a "sleeper" spy
on board B5, and that the spy is a very important person onboard the
station.  To make matters more complicated, the spy does not know he or
she is a spy as the person would have been programmed by a new Psi Corps
technique.  When someone attempts to kill Lyta, Sheridan allows her to
scan the crew, but Ivanova resists the idea... then a startling discovery
is made!

     Patricia Tallman    as   Lyta Alexander
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allen
     Douglas Bennet      as   First Man
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Danny De La Paz     as   Running Man
     Jani Neuman         as   Med Tech
     George Simms        as   Security Guard

B20) "The Long, Twilight Struggle"

     Directed by: John C. Flinn, III
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

LONDO: "What?  Are you mad?  They will destroy our supply lines."
REFA: "Not if your forces are there waiting for them."
LONDO: "My forces?  And where will all your generals be during this time?"
REFA: "Launching a full assault on the Narn homeworld itself."
LONDO: "Great maker!  You can't be serious!"
REFA: "Of course I'm serious."

The Narns, running out of resources in the war against the Centauri,
decide on a last ditch attempt to stall the Centauri.  A major strike is
planned against a heavily guarded Centauri supply world, but the Centauri
discover the plans for the attack and, with the help of the Shadows, stop
the attack on the supply world and launch a surprise attack on the Narn
homeworld.  The Narn eventually surrender, and Sheridan offers G'Kar
sanctuary onboard B5.  Meanwhile, Sheridan and Delenn are contacted by
Draal on the nearby planet, who offers them access to vast amount of
information and resources, and Delenn introduces Sheridan to the Rangers.

     John Schuck         as   Draal
     Rif Hutton          as   ISN Reporter
     William Forward     as   Lord Refa
     W. Morgan Sheppard  as   G'Sten
     Neil Bradley        as   Narn #2
     Jonathan Chapman    as   Narn Second
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Elisa Beth Garver   as   Tech #2

B21) "Comes the Inquisitor"

     Directed by: Mike Laurence Vejar
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

G'KAR: "Dead, dead, dead, dead, dead, dead, dead, dead, dead!  How do you
       apologise to them?"
VIR: "I can't."
G'KAR: "Then I cannot forgive."

G'Kar tries to rally the Narns on B5, continuing his resistance effort
against the Centauri who have cut off all contact with the Narn homeworld.
Garibaldi helps G'Kar find an illegal arms supplier who is able to smuggle
weapons to the Narn homeworld.  Kosh tests Delenn's allegiance by
summoning Sebastian, a human who claims to have lived in the 19th century.
As Sebastian does a series of intense and torturous tests of willpower on
her, she begins to falter... Even Sheridan may not be able to save her.

     Wayne Alexander     as   Sebastian
     Jack Kehler         as   Mr. Chase
     Diane Adair         as   Narn Mother
     Ardwight Chamberlain
                         as   Kosh
     Jim Chiros          as   Centauri #1
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Mark Hendrickson    as   Narn #1
     Kim Strauss         as   Narn #2
     Craig Thomas        as   Human
     Michael Francis Kelly
                         as   Guard

B22) "The Fall of Night"

     Directed by: Janet Greek
     Written by.: J. Michael Straczynski

KEFFER: "... It was jet black.  A shade of black so deep your eye kinda
        slides off it.  And it shimmered when you looked at it.  A spider
        big as death and twice as ugly.  And when it flies past it's like
        your hear a scream in your mind."

As the Centauri Republic 'expands' into Drazi and Pak'ma'ra territories,
Sheridan confronts Mollari, but is warned to stay out.  Earth finally
sends a representative to investigate the situation, but he gives Sheridan
some unexpected news about Earth's position on the matter.  When B5 is
found to be protecting a Narn cruiser a Centauri cruiser arrives to stop
the ship, and a firefight ensues between the Centauri cruiser and B5.
Keffer makes a terrifying discovery, Sheridan's life comes into danger and
Kosh is revealed... or is he?

     Roy Dotrice         as   Frederick Lantz
     Jeff Conaway        as   Zack Allen
     Juli Donald         as   Pilot #1
     Rick Hamilton       as   Mitch
     Robin Sachs         as   Na'Kal
     John Vickery        as   Mr. Welles
     Donovan Brown       as   Pak'Ma'Ra Ambassador
     Joshua Cox          as   Tech #1
     Elisa Beth Garver   as   Tech #2
     Mark Hendrickson    as   Narn #1
     Joshua Patton       as   Human/Minbari Kosh
     Kim Strauss         as   Drazi Ambassador

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[4]  U.K. AIR DATES & RATINGS
=============================

DATE FORMAT: yy/mm/dd
RATINGS FORMAT: position/viewers in millions

Please note that the UK running order of the episodes may not be the same
as the US order.

AIR DATE  PROD.  TITLE                               RATINGS
          CODE

95/02/07   201   "Points of Departure"
95/02/14   202   "Revelations"
95/02/21   203   "The Geometry of Shadows"
95/02/28   204   "A Distant Star"
95/03/07   205   "The Long Dark"
95/03/14   206   "Spider in the Web"
95/03/21   207   "A Race Through Dark Places"
95/03/28   208   "Soul Mates"
95/04/04   209   "The Coming of Shadows"
95/04/11   210   "GROPOS"
95/04/18   211   "All Alone in the Night"
95/04/25   212   "Acts of Sacrifice"
95/05/02   213   "Hunter, Prey"                      16/2.00
95/05/09   215   "There All The Honor Lies"
95/05/16   214   "And Now For A Word"                29/1.87
95/05/23   217   "In the Shadow of Z'ha'dum"
95/05/30   216   "Knives"
95/06/06   218   "Confessions and Lamentations"
95/07/25   220   "Divided Loyalties"
95/08/01   219   "The Long, Twilight Struggle"
95/08/08   221   "Comes the Inquisitor"
95/08/15   222   "The Fall of Night"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[5]  SEASON 2 UK EDITS
======================

All information included here are based on edits made on 1st run episodes.
Repeated episodes that may have been further edited are not included.  If
you know of any other edits, e-mail me all the details!

Edits are listed in the format:-

[ep. #]  [title]
[edited scenes]

B09) "The Coming of Shadows"

  a) When the Centauri Prime Minister was stabbed, the shot of the knife
     going in was cut out.

B10) "GROPOS"

  a) About half the bar brawl was cut.

B21) "Comes the Inquisitor"

  a) When G'Kar comes out of the elevator after Vir's apology, he cuts his
     hand with his knife (which was edited out).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

[6]  AND FINALLY...
===================

I hope you find this guide useful.  If you have any suggestions, comments,
or just want to say hi, you can drop me a line at one of the following:-

     Mr. Edwin Yau,     e-mail:   mrpotato@fastnet.co.uk
     16 Hogarth Road,
     HOVE,
     East Sussex,
     BN3 5RG.
     ENGLAND.

Hellos to... Peter Berry, Steven Grimm, Tobias Richter, Channel 4
             Television and all the guys at Visual Imagination Ltd.!


                              === END ===
