Babylon 5: TV Science Fiction Through New Eyes

by

Steven Grimm

Imagine a future three hundred years hence.  Humankind has recently been
beaten, badly, in a three-year-long war with an alien federation, who for
reasons unknown pulled back and sued for peace on the eve of their final
victory.  Ten years later, we're back on our feet, fast becoming a major
player in a complex political milieu of alien civilizations, some of them
huge empires and others barely spacefaring.

That's the premise of "Babylon 5," a new science-fiction series from Warner
Bros.' PrimeTime Entertainment Network, or PTEN.  It joins two existing PTEN
series, "Time Trax" and "Kung Fu: The Legend Continues," both of which
premiered last season.  It can be seen Wednesdays at 8PM on most PTEN
stations.

Set on an Earth-sponsored space station in the year 2258, "Babylon 5" is the
story of station commander Jeffrey Sinclair (Michael O'Hare), a survivor of
the final climactic battle of the Earth-Minbari War and, unbeknownst to him
until a recent episode, a key part of the puzzle of the Minbari Federation's
sudden surrender during that battle.  The station is the fifth to bear the
name Babylon; the first three were sabotaged and destroyed, and number four
vanished without a trace shortly after becoming operational.  Its fate is
another of the many ongoing mysteries of the series' universe.

"Babylon 5" is the brainchild of executive producer J. Michael Straczynski, a
longtime science-fiction buff and veteran of such shows as "Murder, She
Wrote" and the new "Twilight Zone."  Straczynski has been developing "Babylon
5" since 1987.  One result of this long gestation period is a detailed
five-year plot outline, a roadmap for the entire series from start to
finish.  In that respect, the show is like a novel for television, a story
spanning five seasons with a beginning, middle, and end.

Nonetheless, Straczynski says, "Babylon" isn't like "Twin Peaks," which
required viewers to tune in each week or fall hopelessly behind in the
ongoing storylines.  Each episode of "Babylon 5," by contrast, is intended
to be enjoyed on its own by someone who has no idea there's a larger story
being told.  "The way the story is constructed, you can come in at any
point, even miss episodes, and still be able to follow the thing," says
Straczynski.  "It's just that the *more* you watch, the more you'll get out
of it, the more things you'll pick up on.  It's a very difficult task from
a writing point of view, but worth the effort, I think."

Since they know where the show will be headed down the line, Straczynski's
team can schedule set construction, special-effects work, and casting well in
advance when necessary, leading to much lower production costs than similar
series.  The first-season finale, for example, was shot twelfth due to the
extensive post-production work required.  It won't be aired until late
November.

Special-effects costs are also kept low by "Babylon"'s groundbreaking use of
computer-generated imagery, or CGI.  Using computer graphics instead of
models for outer-space scenes allows three to four minutes of new effects
footage to be produced for each episode, something almost unheard-of in
traditional science-fiction television.  But don't expect to see the effects
spread evenly across episodes.  Straczynski's plot outline allows non-
effects-intensive episodes to be grouped together in production, so that the
effects team (Valencia-based Foundation Imaging) can use several episodes'
worth of production time on one especially spectacular show.  A recent
episode titled "And the Sky Full of Stars" featured a flashback to the
disastrous final battle of the Earth-Minbari war.  That sequence is
considered by many science-fiction aficionados to be the most complex space
battle ever shown on series television.  And according to Straczynski, it
pales next to some of the upcoming episodes.

Another unusual aspect of "Babylon"'s production is Straczynski's interaction
with potential viewers via computer networks.  He has been a regular user of
the GEnie commercial data service since before the start of filming, and has
shared the day-to-day details of production with other GEnie users.  Even
more unusual, he has solicited comments, suggestions, and criticisms from his
fellow users, many of which have resulted in changes to the series.  For
those on Usenet, Straczynski can also be found answering questions and
dropping tantalizing hints about things to come in the newsgroup
"rec.arts.sf.tv.babylon5".

Reaction to the show has been generally positive.  The aforementioned "And
the Sky Full of Stars" is the most popular episode to date; least liked is
"Infection," the first series episode produced and fourth aired.  Viewers
seem to enjoy the fact that the series is gradually telling a story spanning
many episodes, even if only bits and pieces are revealed at any one time,
and the special effects and makeup are very well-regarded.  The most common
complaint among fans is the often wooden acting of several regulars.
Straczynski counters that this is becoming a less frequent complaint as
viewers come to know the characters.  Some viewers find the dialogue stilted;
one scene in particular, a reconciliation between Sinclair and former flame
Catherine Sakai (Julia Nickson), provoked an especially strong negative
reaction.  But even those complaining most loudly continue to tune in to see
where the story will go next.

Like it or hate it, most viewers would agree that "Babylon 5" has a feel and
a look all its own, and whether or not the show runs for five seasons and
finishes telling its story, that's an accomplishment to be proud of.

-----
To find out more...

GEnie: Go to page 471 (SFRT2), and choose message category 18.
Usenet: See the newsgroup "rec.arts.sf.tv.babylon5".
Internet: Anonymous ftp to "ftp.hyperion.com" or "ftp.uml.edu".
WWW: Go to URL "http://www.hyperion.com/lurk/lurker.html".
